The government of Egypt through the Ministry of Transport has awarded two contracts for the execution of the first phase of the Cairo Metro Line 4 project connecting the El Malek El Saleh Station in central Cairo with the Hadayek El Ashgar Station in Giza, a distance of about 19 kilometers. Also Read: Raml tram in Alexandria, Egypt, set for rehabilitation and modernization The contracts concern the civil works package (CP401) for the western part of the aforementioned Phase, and the railway systems, track, and depot works package (CP411) for the entire Phase. eval(ez_write_tag([[336,280],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-4','ezslot_0',115,'0','0']));The first contract concerning the civil works (CP401) was awarded to a consortium that includes Hassan Allam Holding subsidiary Hassan Allam Construction, the  Arab Contractors, Petrojet, and Concord. The scope of the work includes the construction of 12 metro stations, 11 of which will be situated underground, from Hadaek Al Ashgar on the 6th of October City to El Mesaha station on Al-Haram Street, a distance of approximately 13.7 kilometers. The second contract which entails the railway systems, track, and depot works (CP411) was awarded to Orascom Construction consortium with Mitsubishi Corporation. Valued at about US$ 800M, the contract entails the installation of signaling systems, power supply systems, telecommunication systems, platform screen doors, automatic fare collection systems as well as track laying works, and the construction of depot/workshop. eval(ez_write_tag([[250,250],'constructionreviewonline_com-box-4','ezslot_1',117,'0','0']));The two remaining packages to be awarded concern the civil works for the eastern part of the phase and the procurement of rolling stock. The project will be financed by a Japanese Yen Credit Loan, equivalent to about US$ 315M provided by the Japanese International Corporation Agency (JICA) under the condition of the Special Technical Economic Partnership (STEP). Upon completion this phase will make it possible for passengers to transfer to Line 1 at El Malek El Saleh Station and Line 2 at Giza Station, facilitating their movement and alleviating heavy road traffic. Additionally, this line is expected to ensure greater convenience for tourists looking to visit the Great Pyramids as well as the Grand Egyptian Museum (GEM).