The New York City Economic Development Corporation is set to commence construction of the Bronx Point affordable housing project on the edge of the Harlem River. The project will be constructed on a vacant piece of land along the river owned by the city of New York. The project will include 542 affordable housing units, community and retail spaces, a new public park, and a museum dedicated to the history of hip-hop. The project is being developed by the New York City Economic Development Corporation in partnership with several city agencies whose main agenda is to address the lack of affordable housing and jobs in the low-income and rent-burdened areas of the South Bronx. As opposed to typical mixed-use projects that are developed at market rates, Bronx Point affordable housing project was designed to specifically address the needs of the neighborhood including the inclusion of additional cultural and community amenities. Thanks to its ambitious plan, the project recently won the Annual Awards for Excellence in Design from the Public Design Commission which is tasked with reviewing designs of projects in the city. The project will include a U-shaped cluster of building towers on the edge of the river with community, retail, and museum spaces at the base. The mixed-use project was especially necessary given the fact that the city is trying to meet the high demand for affordable housing. In addition, the project ensures some equity in the distribution of job opportunities. “One thing that sets this project apart is just the scale of it. We’re able to achieve so many of these benefits because the project is so large,” said Douglas Land, real estate transaction senior associate at the New York City Economic Development Corporation. The more than half a million square feet project will 50,000 square feet for the first permanent home of the Universal Hip Hop Museum and 10,000 square feet of retail space. The new museum will be dedicated to highlighting the story of the local creation of hip-hop.