Carleton University’s Faculty of Engineering and Design (FED) has commenced the construction of an all-new Engineering Design Centre. It is a culmination of a long process of planning and finally building the project.  The construction of the 25,000-square-foot facility is expected to cost $16 million and it will be linked to Carleton’s existing Mackenzie Building on Library Road. The project was designed by Diamond Schmitt Architects in partnership with KWC Architects and is expected to offer dedicated space for undergraduate students as they work on fourth-year Capstone design projects. Features on the three-story building include design studios, a maker space, workshop bays, a central atrium, and meeting and lounge spaces. “The best learning environments inherently combine both theory and practice,” said FED Dean Larry Kostiuk. “By investing in this newly-established space for hands-on education, we look to expand Carleton’s longstanding commitment to experiential learning.” FED intends to work with other partners on the project among them alumni and partners to enhance the long–term vision of constructing an all-new Engineering Design Centre. The FED also says it intends to partner with key stakeholders to develop new collaborative opportunities as well as invest in leading technologies to enhance student learning. Although much of the engineering and design course at Carleton largely involves hands-on projects, students are required to work in groups upon arrival in the fourth year to produce a design that incorporates everything covered in the program. The fourth-year Capstone design project is always considered the hallmark of an undergraduate engineering degree and helps to integrate theoretical knowledge with practical skills to come up with a professional-level project. During the fourth year, students are also taught entrepreneurial skills and offer exposure to real-world problem-solving. The building had been designed with an open and inviting interior with reconfigurable furniture as well as formal and informal meeting space. Meeting spaces are designed to encourage students’ interaction and connection.