eval(ez_write_tag([[300,250],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3','ezslot_0',114,'0','0']));Steel-Kamet Oy is the leading developer of concrete production systems that delivers solutions to clients worldwide, including demanding power plant, gas, and oilfield sites as well as to large- and small-scale constructors. The company manufactures concrete mixing plants, heating systems, conveyors and screw conveyors, process automation and electrification control systems in the Nordic region while offering planning, installations and training services. The key to the success of any precast producer is an efficient and smooth concrete distribution system. Steel-Kamet Oy’s system solutions for this purpose represent state-of-the-art technology, supported by forty years of experience in the field of development and improvement, production and supply of machinery and equipment for concrete plants and prefabrication plants. Kamet modular solutions are ideally suited to produce top-quality concrete, including high strength concrete, colored concrete and other types of special concrete for the needs of the precast and process industries. The company specializes in the planning and implementation of complex investment projects in the concrete and processing sectors. Their international organization delivers flexible solutions throughout the world, drawing on four decades of expertise in the field. eval(ez_write_tag([[336,280],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-4','ezslot_2',115,'0','0']));Steel-Kamet keeps promises. The comprehensive quality means the capability to meet the needs and expectations of the interested parties as well as quality requirements in a cost-effective way. The company assure 100% operational and capacity guarantee to their solutions, and the customer value is created with the long life cycle of the services and with low operating costs. Africa’s construction industry is growing faster than the overall economy. The construction of housing is a high priority and the construction sector plays a key role in politics, economy and society. Due to the high growth in population, the provision of housing, infrastructure and work is a central challenge. Thus the company is working closely with African and the Middle East market by supplying quality products. Affirming this Marko Isojarvi states that, “we have supplied Batching and mixing plant to Algeria and we have several contacts and offers for precast equipment. We have supplied appr. 30 B&M Plants to Gulf-area since 1990’s. Kuwait, Saudi-Arabia, Oman, Iran.” eval(ez_write_tag([[580,400],'constructionreviewonline_com-box-4','ezslot_5',117,'0','0']));Steel-Kamet Oy’s delivery chain ensures that their clients always benefit from the latest knowhow in the sector. Their comprehensive services include computerized planning, manufacture, installations, training, maintenance, and servicing. Comprehensive use of Steel-Kamet Oy’s services ensures the best outcome for years to come.