Beton Trowel is a pioneer in manufacturing of various extensive range of concrete finishing and compaction equipment. For over two decades they have been serving clients across the world and today, the brand BT is well renowned for its consistent quality and reliability. They are, in fact, one of the leading partners in the world for Construction tools. With the principal’s combined experience in the concrete finishing field, BT has been able to produce top quality yet affordable ‘Concrete finishing machinery’ and ‘Site lighting equipment’. They provide end-to-end solutions in Concrete industry and specialize in engineering and manufacturing of high quality machinery and tools for diverse construction and engineering needs. Their extensive product range includes Walk-Behind & Ride-On Power Trowels, Trowel Blades, Float Pans, Vibrating Screed, Concrete Vibrators, Material Spreaders, Concrete Expansion (Armoured) steel joints and various hand tools for concrete screeding and levelling. At BT, innovation drives everything they do, right from the world class products they offer to the superior customer experience that they deliver. With a focus on precision engineering, their products are designed to ensure comfort in handling with trouble-free operation and lasting performance. By combining high-grade materials with precision-engineered parts, the company aims to give the end-user a trouble-free working life. Their vision for complete customer service and satisfaction is made possible by the company’s constant commitment and involvement in research and development. Beton are continually striving to develop new products to make flooring contractors’ job easier and more profitable. The company ensures that your investment in their equipment brings you a trouble free working life and the maximum return on your capital. The complete product range make BT a perfect choice for Equipment Distribution Companies interested in supplying equipment into the Concrete Contractors market. They are a one stop shop filling most of the needs of the Concrete Flooring contractor. Confirming to this Andy Applin Business Development Middle East and Africa says that, “We offer a one stop shop for light construction machinery allowing the customer to purchase a wide variety of equipment and tools under the same brand. This consolidates their purchasing and allows them to manage inventory effectively. We also offer sales support, training, and support in trade fair as well as competitive pricing and European guarantee”. Flooring professionals, building contractors and rental companies turn to Beton Trowel for high quality and competitively priced complete concrete finishing solutions. The product lines range from finishing hand tools to ride-on power trowels and concrete saws. Beton Trowel currently sells to over 45 countries and has a strong network of dealers and service backup with the vision of expanding into new markets across the globe. 