eval(ez_write_tag([[336,280],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3','ezslot_5',114,'0','0']));LEGOLAND, a company under Merlin Entertainments has announced that they are planning on constructing the world’s largest LEGOLAND in the Jinshan District of Shanghai, China after announcing their formal co-operation agreement with the Shanghai Jinshan District Government, CMC Inc., and KIRKB. This follows the signing of a framework agreement in November 2019, announced as part of the China International Import Expo. Under the terms of the agreement, all parties will form a joint venture company and contribute funding to the construction and development of LEGOLAND Shanghai. The total project investment is estimated to cost a total of  US$550 million. Construction of the project is planned to start in 2021, and the Resort is expected to open in 2024. Also Read: Lindt launches world’s largest chocolate museum. LEGOLAND Shanghai will be among the largest LEGOLAND Resorts in the world and will incorporate a 250-room fully themed hotel on opening. World-leading creative, design and construction teams will work together to create an immersive theme park, drawing inspiration from famous scenic spots in Shanghai, Jinshan District, and the town of Fengjing. It will be located in the Jinshan District in southwest Shanghai with a two- hour catchment of 55 million people. The region comprising Shanghai, Jiangsu, Zhejiang, and Anhui have an estimated population of 220 million. eval(ez_write_tag([[250,250],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-4','ezslot_6',115,'0','0']));The construction of the LEGOLAND Shanghai Resort is part of the Jinshan District’s ‘five-year plan’ for the area, which seeks to establish a new area of cultural and tourism development in this region of the Yangtze River Delta. It is envisaged that the construction of the resort will be accompanied by the establishment of other businesses in the vicinity including hotel accommodation, retail, sports facilities, offices, and high-end housing. Nick Varney, Chief Executive of Merlin Entertainments (ABOVE), said: “China represents a great opportunity for strong global brands and I am delighted to work with our partners to bring one of the world’s largest LEGOLAND Resort to Shanghai, which builds on the other attractions we have developed in this exciting part of the country.