The ongoing construction of Cameroon Civil Aviation Authority Training School by Shaanxi Construction Engineering Group Corporation (SCEGC) at the entrance of the Yaoundé – Nsimalen airport area is in good progress and on track to be delivered next year. This imposing six-story building comprising of a basement, a ground floor, and four floors is built on a floor area of ​​4000 m2. The structural work has already been completed and the finishing work is underway. This includes the plumbing, electrical installation, waterproofing on the terraces, roads, and various networks, tiling, and the laying with Pouma pebbles on the facades of the building. In the coming months, work will begin on the installation of doors and windows, curtain walls, painting on the walls, and the construction of the definitive fence. Also Read: Construction of Warka village in Cameroon’s rain forest underway SCEGC has already ordered the equipment for the air-conditioning, electricity, sanitary plumbing, video surveillance, access control, and computer equipment that will be delivered in the days ahead. “Soon the training school will be able to play its pioneering role in the training of security partners in Cameroon and Africa at large. Especially with its center in Douala, which is AVSEC – ICAO Center certified, and the school itself certified Trainer Plus,” said the Cameroonian civil aviation regulator in a statement. This construction work was launched in 2018. Alongside this future architectural jewel, the CCAA is also building a three-story Air Search and Rescue Center that comprises of a basement, ground floor, and one floor on an area of 1000 m2. SCEGC is also constructing this building whose execution rate is currently 57.99%. The two projects, fully financed by the CCAA budget, have already mobilized close to US$ 2.7M excluding tax. The total cost of the project is estimated at over US$ 6M including tax. The CCAA also plans to build a hotel-type accommodation unit, a sports complex, and its headquarters building.