The need for high performance combined with water and light weight has become a must for the manufacturers of mobile machines like sweepers, plaster machines, concrete pumps, urban cleaning vehicles, asphalt machines, excavators, ditching machines, refuse collection vehicles, tractors, fishing boats and ships as well as those ones using high pressure tools as firefighting and rescue vehicles to extract passengers from crashed vehicles. The Italian company Neròn Pumps, thanks to their patent, has developed a high pressure pump, with separated circuits, called HWB-HPP and HPX, capable to reach up to 1000 bar outlet water pressure and a high pressure transformer, with integrated circuits, the HPI, capable to reach 1000 bar, meant to be the ideal hydraulic power source for the above mobile vehicles. The hydraulic system mounted on such vehicles can supply the pump with hydraulic pressure and hydraulic flow to make the pump working. The HWB can be operated with hydraulic oil in the inlet section and in the dual fluid version it can pump fresh water or sea water. In combination with water-hydraulics, the HWB becomes a precious component for systems meant to operate in cleaning vehicles, hoses and tubes, removing concrete incrustations, removing paint, posters, graffiti or smog from buildings, cleaning of streets, cleaning cement drums and benches, sidewalks, walls, removing rubber from airport runways and roads, demolition, sandblasting, restoration and plaster removal, disinfection, cleaning silos, tanks, spraying chemicals, reclamation removing rust, old paint and algae from boats, cleaning fishing nets, fire suppression, abating dust in tunnels and mines, . The HWB can also be used also underwater. Fire suppression is also made easy with the HWB because the pulverisation of the water due to high pressure makes it possible to kill fire with little water, thus having two advantages: The Neròn pressure transformers have been successfully tested also in coil forming with high pressure fluid and high pressure cutting. The HPI, the pressure intensifier, has two sections, the inlet an axial piston type motor and the outlet an axial piston pump. The two sections are mechanically linked and have different displacement. The pump section has bigger displacement than motor section; in this way the displacement ratio between inlet and outlet section, due to the fact that power is constant, allows for the HPI to render a lower flow at higher pressure compared to the input. For example the HPI is available also with a 5 ratio. In this way if the inlet pressure is 200 bar, the transformer will render fluid at the water outlet at 950 bar; the difference between the theoretical and actual pressure is due to losses. The advantages of such component are obvious: operating utilities at pressure much higher than the rest of the system and will no longer require a pump capable of higher pressure. This means less fluid heating and, in general, a better efficiency of the whole system. Cost is dramatically reduced because any gear pump can push oil at 200 bar but very few pumps can achieve 900 bar. Among them the most common applications with the oil-oil version: general pressure boosting to operate high pressure tools like rescue spreaders, rescue scissors, concrete demolition, squeezing devices, rock bolts and testing rigs The HPI is available also with a 5 ratio. In this way if the inlet pressure is 200 bar, the transformer will render fluid at the water outlet at 950 bar; the difference between the theoretical and actual pressure is due to losses. The HWB is available also with a 1,75 ratio. In this way if the inlet pressure is 200 bar, the transformer will render fluid at the water outlet at 350 bar; the difference between the theoretical and actual pressure is due to losses. Performance, reliability, compact size and lightweight of the Neròn pumps makes it a perfect component for other many different kind of application where high pressure oil or water are required.