Construction has began on a new 750-bed student accommodation building that will double the current residence capacity at U of T Scarborough in Canada. The new residence which will be located on Ellesmere Road just east of Military Trail, will include a mix of single- and double-occupancy bedrooms, fully accessible suites, study spaces, and common areas including kitchen and lounge spaces. The building will also have a rooftop garden and terrace, a food servery and dining hall, event space, and mixed-use spaces for workshop-style learning. It will also house the Office of Student Experience & Wellbeing as well as Student Housing & Residence Life. The building’s U-shaped design, developed by Handel Architects in collaboration with Toronto-based Core Architects, complements the campus’s natural surroundings. It’s shaped so that the north side opens up to the tree grove located just north if the building, while inside the large dining hall on the ground floor will offer views of the same tree grove. Also Read: Construction of new $83M Health Sciences Education Center at University of Minnesota complete The building’s energy-efficient features include triple-glazed windows, walls with improved thermal performance, and continuous insulation, among others. The result is a 40% to 60% heating and cooling-related energy savings compared to conventional buildings. The residence, which is being built by general contractor Pomerleau, will also use Spot, Boston Dynamic’s robot dog, during the construction phase to document work progress, and support health, safety and quality standards. According to University of Toronto President Meric Gertler, this state-of-the-art, innovative residence facility is designed to meet a major need at U of T Scarborough. “It will provide an outstanding environment for living and learning, a place where friendships are forged and memories are made. And it will be a hub of community and belonging in an increasingly vibrant part of this wonderful campus,” he added. The new residence is scheduled to open in the Fall of 2023 and will meet a growing demand for on-campus housing options.