Aramark Global Headquarters located at 2400 Market Street in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania has been awarded LEED Silver certification, by the U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC). The building received LEED Silver certification for its sustainable workspace design and construction. LEED for Interior Design and Construction (LEED ID+C) rating system The building, which was opened in 2018, was certified under the LEED for Interior Design and Construction (LEED ID+C) rating system. The system encourages designs and construction methods that are people and planet-friendly. The building was initially awarded the LEED Gold certification as a new construction project. Aramark says the two certifications underscore its sustainability goals of improving people’s lives and reducing greenhouse emissions by 2025. In a statement, Aramark Vice President of Corporate Services Marc S. Liciardello said the building was designed to adapt to future changes and technological dynamics. “Our goal in designing our new home was to ‘future-proof’ the workplace by integrating sustainable design elements to create an open environment that fosters collaboration, innovation, wellness, and community,” he said. Liciardello added that the building is able to support remote working in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic and also sustain productivity in the future when they return to in-house working. He also noted that the LEED recognition is an indication of the company’s commitment to offering healthy and sustainable workplaces. Designing buildings to achieve high performance and improve human health USGBC President and CEO Mahesh Ramanujam said LEED is an innovative tool that ensures buildings are designed, constructed, and operated in a manner that ensures high performance, protects the environment and improves human health. He added that Aramark helps to reinforce and support the industry as well as the USGBC towards achieving green buildings for everyone within this generation. Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) is a green building rating system that evaluates the sustainability of buildings through a framework that includes efficiency, health, and cost-savings.