A new photovoltaic solar power plant has been commissioned in Bithéa, Abéché, Chad in the presence of the Minister of Urban and Rural Hydraulics, Tahani Mahamat Hassan. Also Read: Proposed Djermaya solar project in Chad enters a new phase The project was initiated in March 2020 following the signing of an agreement between the government of the Central African Republic and Abou Simbil Company. The installation consists of 1476 photovoltaic solar panels spread over two sites, and it has two inverter chambers. It has the capacity to produce 500 Kilowatts of electricity. eval(ez_write_tag([[468,60],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-4','ezslot_0',115,'0','0']));The photovoltaic solar power plant will strengthen the solar energy supply to the Bithéa drinking water production station to compensate for repetitive breakdowns and help the Chadian Water Company (STE) save on energy costs. Speaking during the commissioning of the project, the Minister of Urban and Rural Hydraulics explained the work done by the Abou Simbil Company as a gesture of patriotism and commitment to social work. She said that the plant will save around eight hours of fuel and help reduce carbon dioxide emissions, in line with the National Plan for Adaptation to Climate Change. eval(ez_write_tag([[580,400],'constructionreviewonline_com-box-4','ezslot_1',117,'0','0']));In addition to this plant, the Abou Simbil Company has offered five pumps to the Bithéa water pumping station. The Director-General of the STE, Koubra Hissein Itno, recalls that the Bithéa facilities are saturated in the face of the growth of the population of Abéché, the second-largest city and the third-largest economic city in Chad. She explains that new equipment acquired by the STE will ensure the supply of drinking water for 24 hours a day. The daily production of the plant will increase from the current 4,000 m2 to about 6,000 m2 which will be enough to serve the water needs of the more than 250,000 inhabitants of the Abéché city.