The construction of Newell Creek Medical Building, the main building of an office complex in Mentor’s Newell Creek Development has been completed and the building welcomed its first tenants. The office complex is being built on a 10-acre piece of land. The 40,000-square-foot Newell Creek Medical Building has already welcomed six tenants among them Macy Family Dentistry. The building is located at 8140 Norton Parkway. A ceremony was held on Oct. 27 to officially launch the completed building. Macy Family Dentistry has taken up 6,000 square feet of the building that is portioned into 12 treatment rooms. In addition, the business plans to install state-of-the-art dental technology. While commenting on the project, Dr. Jacqueline Macy Cerar, who was among the people who pushed the project through said the launch of the building, is a milestone. Dr. Jacqueline and Dr. Greg Eippert of Ophthalmic Physicians Inc were the main driving forces behind the construction of the project. Dr. Jacqueline added that the new building will avail more office space to allow them to offer better care and services that meet the patients’ needs. She noted that the building will feature more exam rooms and advanced technology. In addition to Macy Family Dentistry, other tenants that have entered Newell Creek Medical Building are Vitreo-Retinal Consultants, Apex Skin, Casandra Tessaro Endodontics, Periodontal Associates Incorporated, and OPI. Macy Family Dentistry was established in 1974 by James Macy and was originally based at Lake Health Mentor Campus at 9485 Mentor Ave before relocating to the new Newell Creek Medical Building. Kevin Malecek, a Mentor Economic Development Director said Macy Family Dentistry has had a long history in the Mentor community. He noted the business has a lot of investment in the community as well as other medical practices that attest to their commitment to the community. In December 2018, Mentor Planning Commission approved an application to subdivide the site for a medical office complex.