Emirates Steel, the leading integrated steel plant in the UAE, announced its sponsorship of SteelChallenge-15, the annual regional challenge organised by the World Steel Association (worldsteel) through its e-learning advanced website: SteelUniversity.org. The challenge will be held on 25 November 2020 for 24 hours through a virtual programme simulating the manufacturing process implemented in steel plants all over the world. This year, 100 students from Abu Dhabi University, Khalifa University, Higher Colleges of Technology (HCT) – Abu Dhabi Men’s College, and UAE University, in addition to 50 professionals from Emirates Steel will participate in the challenge, in a step towards expanding the participation of UAE universities. The challenge includes five main regions, namely: the Americas, Asia – East and Oceania, Asia – North, Asia – West, and Europe and Africa. Participants will be challenged to make a special grade of steel identified for the competition. UAE participating individuals will compete against their peers from Asia – West region. “Our sponsorship of this challenge for the third time in a row is part of our effort to support and encourage the youth and Emeriti talents to excel in engineering, industrial and technical specialisations. We continue our investment in great minds, and contribution to the development of iron and steel sector’s future leaders.  At Emirates Steel, we always seek the continuous improvement of technical capabilities to boost the progress and development of our operations. This helps us elevate the heavy industry sector’s contribution towards the national economic development and diversification, in line with the Abu Dhabi plans,” said Engineer Saeed Ghumran Al Remeithi, CEO of Emirates Steel. Al Remeithi highlighted the significance of the continued collaboration with the participating universities and praised the keenness of the academic personnel to engage their students in such global, leading and realistic competition. Jasem Mohammed Al Khateri, Chief Human Capital and Services Officer at Emirates Steel said: “The challenge gives us the opportunity to enrich the knowledge and hands-on experience of the university students and steel professionals, since we provide the necessary support and training for those participating in the regional challenge, with the aim to help them qualify for the world challenge to be held in April 2021.” The SteelChallenge-14 held in 2019 witnessed over 2000 participants from more than 60 companies and 240 prominent academic institutions from 57 countries around the world. About Emirates Steel Emirates Steel is a leading integrated steel manufacturer in the Middle East region, based in the UAE capital, Abu Dhabi. Through Senaat, Emirates Steel is part of ADQ, one of the region’s largest holding companies with a broad portfolio of major enterprises spanning key sectors of Abu Dhabi’s diversified economy. Established in 1998, Emirates Steel boasts leverages cutting-edge rolling mill technology, and supplies the domestic and international markets with high quality finished products including wire rods, rebars, heavy sections and sheet piles. Emirates Steel is the first steelmaker in the world to capture its CO2 emissions, with the possible exception of some North American manufacturers. The company plays an enabling role in building the UAE’s future and contributes to achieving the Abu Dhabi Economic Vision 2030 and UAE Centennial 2071 through its delivery of market-leading products to local industries and provision of career opportunities for talented UAE nationals.