eval(ez_write_tag([[468,60],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3','ezslot_4',114,'0','0']));The Belmont University in Tennessee, US has announced plans to build a new $98m residence hall. To be built on Caldwell Avenue, the 268,000ft2 structure will join the residential village that was created in the southern end of the campus after the completion of Tall Hall in 2018. The new residence hall will feature all private bedrooms in apartment-style living. It will include a fitness centre, flexible basement space and vending area. The building will have a two-storey lobby which will feature study and gathering areas, mail and laundry rooms and two exterior courtyards. The structure will feature exterior limestone and brick accents. The project is expected to be opened in 2022. Upon completion, the new facility will provide shelter to more than 600 upperclassmen. The new hall will increase the residential spaces to nearly 61% of undergraduate students. Also Read: Construction of multi-family development ‘TitletownFlats’ in Wisconsin, US begins According to Belmont University president Dr. Bob Fisher, the university hope the students get the best out of their college experience when they call this place their home. “We want them right here in the heart of all that is going on, and I’m proud that we will be able to offer that opportunity to hundreds more of our upperclassmen in this state-of-the-art facility. I believe in our students and I believe it is so important to continue investing in and providing additional resources to support our students and help our campus grow,” he said. eval(ez_write_tag([[300,250],'constructionreviewonline_com-box-4','ezslot_3',117,'0','0']));This residence hall will add to the 3,500 residential spaces that Belmont has built on campus in the past several years through the construction of 11 residence halls, just part of the extraordinary campus development that represents more than US $1bn invested in new construction, renovations and property acquisitions. 