The contractor working on the multimillion Chemususu water supply project in Baringo County, Kenya has been instructed to issue a revised work plan in the next 60 days in a bid to facilitate the completion of the project. Speaking during a verification inspection tour of the project, Martin Rotich, the Presidential Delivery Unit (PDU) Director said that he expects the contractor, Guangxi Hydropower Construction Company, to complete putting up the chemical building house and water reticulation in Koibatek, Mogotio, and Rongai sub-counties within the stipulated time frame. He also asked Kenya Power and Lighting Company officials in Kabarnet to urgently issue a quotation for an electricity transformer which will be installed at the main water treatment plant. eval(ez_write_tag([[300,250],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-4','ezslot_2',115,'0','0']));According to the project Resident Engineer, Donald Wasike, the percentage of the work done so far is 91. This accounts for 146.5 kilometers out of 204.2 kilometers of the pipeline, 23 out of 26 water tanks of different capacities, and 24 out of 30 water kiosks. Also Read: Rehabilitation of Mwache Multipurpose Dam in Kwale, Kenya gathers pace eval(ez_write_tag([[336,280],'constructionreviewonline_com-box-4','ezslot_0',117,'0','0']));Eng. Wasike explained that the contractor intends to subcontract the remaining works so as to hasten the completion of the project which has a capacity of 12 billion cubic meters of water and which is one of the country’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) on clean water and sanitation. Upon completion, the water project will provide clean and safe drinking water to more than 100,000 people and thousands of livestock in Koibatek, Mogotio, and Rongai sub-counties. 11 towns and several learning institutions in the three sub-counties will be supplied with clean piped water from the dam. The 45-meter high dam project was commissioned by President Uhuru Kenyatta and DP William Ruto back in 2017. Its main objective is to alleviate the perennial water shortage experienced in parts of Nakuru and Baringo counties.