Consol Energy Inc is close to securing a grant for the construction of a zero-carbon-emission power plant using coal waste. The project is one of four hydrogen-and coal-powered projects that will share $80 million in funding from the U.S. Department of Energy. Although details of the grand, as well as the cost-sharing deal, are yet to be agreed upon, the company is expected to receive a $10 million upfront payment for the project. The company is also expected to contribute a percentage of the project’s final cost. The company is based in Canonsburg and currently operates three big mines in southwestern Pennsylvania. The grant will be used to design and develop a state-of-the-art coal plant that is expected to be ready by 2030. While commenting on the project, U.S. Energy Secretary Dan Brouillette said the project is part of the government’s efforts to encourage the development of next-generation coal-fired power generation plants that have zero emissions.  The program attracted more than 30 funding proposals. On his side, Steve Winberg, assistant secretary of fossil energy said the project is very important as it will enable coal producers to burn their coal waste. According to Winberg, coal waste can be used to produce electricity instead of being deposit off. The pilot plant is located at Consol Energy’s Mining Complex in Pennsylvania which is situated in Greene and Washington counties. Zachery Smith, a spokesman at Consol Energy said they are happy to be awarded the grant noting that it will allow them to complete the project.  Smith said they will use research and development to showcase how coal technologies are designed, built, and finally integrated with net-zero carbon emissions. He added that they look forward to working with the Department of Energy, state, and local officials to develop the project and ensure value throughout the project lifestyle. For this project, pressurized fluidized bed combustion technology, PFBC, will be used as part of a pilot project to use coal waste that the company worked on in a joint venture.