Construction of Fenton, a 69 acre mixed-use development in Cary, North Carolina, US is underway. Fenton will be Cary’s first vertically integrated, mixed-use destination and one of the largest retail-focused projects currently underway in the United States. The groundbreaking propels the project toward a grand opening in Spring 2022. Fenton is located along I-40 and Cary Towne Boulevard, a prominent interstate interchange that occupies a central location in the Triangle. The first phase of Fenton will deliver approximately 345,000 square feet of shops, restaurants and entertainment space, 200,000 square feet of office space, a 175-key boutique hotel and a 357-unit luxury apartment community, The Canopy at Fenton. Also Read: U.S real estate investment firm Hines building Residences project at RiNo in Denver, U.S eval(ez_write_tag([[250,250],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-4','ezslot_3',115,'0','0']));According to Paul Zarian, director at Hines, the developer, Fenton is pressing forward, and the start of vertical construction is one step closer to achieving the vision of creating an urban, pedestrian-focused destination to live, shop, dine and work in the heart of the Triangle. “Fully capitalizing the project and securing commitments from retailers during a pandemic reflects significant confidence in the project, particularly its open-air design and modern mix of uses. We look forward to seeing this memorable project rise in the months ahead,” he added. Cary, NC Mayor Harold Weinbrecht, Jr. said that the city is very excited to be the home of Fenton and appreciates the partnership they have had with the developers as well as the State of North Carolina to help turn an idea into reality.  “Our nation is enduring significant challenges, and it’s very important to have projects like Fenton to celebrate and come together on as we navigate the troubles of today by the light that shines from a hopeful and optimistic future,” added the Mayor. eval(ez_write_tag([[300,250],'constructionreviewonline_com-box-4','ezslot_4',117,'0','0'])); 