eval(ez_write_tag([[300,250],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3','ezslot_2',114,'0','0']));The government of Niger through the Council of Ministers has adopted a bill authorizing the ratification of the loan agreement concluded with the West African Development Bank (BOAD) for construction of roads. With a maximum total amount of approximately US$ 27.31M the loan will be used for the partial financing of the urban road development and asphalting project in the town of Diffa, which is located in the extreme south-east of the West African country, near the border with the neighboring republic of Nigeria. The agreement was signed on July 27th, this year in Lomé, the capital city of Togo. Also Read: Niger: Fast tracking the construction of Minna-Bida highway The overall objective of this project is to contribute to strengthening Diffa city’s road network over a total of around 25 km, with a view of improving the living environment and guaranteeing the comfort and safety of road users. eval(ez_write_tag([[580,400],'constructionreviewonline_com-box-4','ezslot_0',117,'0','0']));More specifically, this development project will contribute, among other things, to improving mobility on the roads concerned by reducing travel time by around 70%, and reducing the operating cost of passenger vehicles by approximately 50%. The project is part of the “Diffa N’Glaa” program which aims to modernize the city so that it is more welcoming and more pleasant to live in ahead of the festivities to be held in the city on December 18 to mark the 62nd anniversary of the proclamation of the Republic of Niger. On the other hand, the government late last month launched the repair work on the Diffa – N’guigmi – Chad border road which spans a distance of over 130 kilometers. The CNPC Dagang Niger Engineering financed project, is will be carried out by the Entreprise Générale de Bâtiment et Travaux Publics (EGBTP) and WAZIR both of which are local companies, within a period of 24 months. Upon completion, this project will contribute to the opening up of agro-pastoral production zones, improving access to basic social services, stimulating and facilitating the mobility of people and the transport of goods. It will also strengthen commercial links between the ECOWAS and CEMAC communities.