Construction of a 720,000-square-foot, three-building industrial campus in Avondale, Arizona, US has begun. Named Fairway 10, the campus is located on 51 acres of land at 199th Ave. and the soon-to-be-opened new Fairway Drive interchange on the heavily trafficked Interstate 10. Fairway 10 will include two single-loaded buildings of 162,000 and 170,000 square feet, well suited for two to four tenants, as well as one 390,000-square-foot cross-dock building appropriate for one to two tenants. The fenced and secured project fronts Interstate 10 and sits between two diamond interchanges at Fairway Drive and Avondale Blvd. Westcore teamed with The Opus Group to serve as its development manager, as well as the design-build general contractor, and expects to complete the campus during the second quarter of next year. Also Read: US $1.25bn construction loan secured for One Madison Avenue in NY, US According to Hack Adams, managing director at Westcore, Fairway 10 is the first speculative development in the rapidly expanding Phoenix industrial market, and they are already seeing encouraging tenant interest. “Tens of millions of consumers in the Southwest U.S. and Northern Mexico are within a day’s drive from warehouses and e-commerce facilities located in the greater region, driving continued demand for quality industrial space,” he added. eval(ez_write_tag([[300,250],'constructionreviewonline_com-box-4','ezslot_3',117,'0','0']));Adams further added that Westcore has made a number of investments in the Phoenix area this year. “Southwest Phoenix has emerged as one of the most vibrant industrial markets nationally, and it remains a strategic market for growing our portfolio,” he affirmed. “Our strong broker partnerships are key to our success. We appreciate Bo Mills bringing this opportunity to our attention, and we are glad to be working with Tony, Marc and Riley to market the project, as they were instrumental in our ability to quickly assess the development opportunity,” said Adams.