eval(ez_write_tag([[250,250],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3','ezslot_4',114,'0','0']));eval(ez_write_tag([[250,250],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3','ezslot_5',114,'0','1']));When space is at a premium, you would want to be careful about designing your bathroom. Your focus has to be on everyday needs so that you can make it most functional. It would be nice to start with a daily routine list to understand what you do and how. It would reveal whether certain features are worth your space or not. For example, if you could do without a bathtub, it would save a lot of space. Then, you can include vertical medicine cabinets on walls for storage. Your bathroom can be light and bright to create a sense of freshness. Like this, there are numerous additions and subtractions that you can make in your place to get the ultimate look you desire. Here is a quick insight into a few things to help you determine how you can arrange this corner of the house to create a a dream bathroom in a small space A super narrow bathroom can scream for breathing space if you don’t plan it well. Some designers use the length of the cramped areas for bath and shower purposes. They create the wet room lengthways, avoiding the shower tray and concealing the pipework underneath. eval(ez_write_tag([[336,280],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-4','ezslot_0',115,'0','0']));It would be best if you did not try to squeeze everything in their standard form and shape into an awkward design. You have to understand the quirkiness and work on its nature. For example, if it is a crooked layout, you can opt for a triangle-shaped vanity to fit in there without protruding. Corner areas can come in handy for building extra storage in the form of medicine cabinets and cupboard. When you discuss storage, you can use behind-the-door spaces for creating a concealed storage system. If it is a master bathroom of small dimensions, your focus has to be on maximizing the space. If you have to eliminate walls for this, you should not hesitate. You can always install glass panels for demarcations. The glass’s shiny surface would allow the easy flow of natural light in the bathroom while maintaining privacy. So it would be great to figure out things like this. eval(ez_write_tag([[250,250],'constructionreviewonline_com-box-4','ezslot_1',117,'0','0']));You wouldn’t want your furniture pieces to occupy and engage the floor area in a small bathroom. Having free space as much as possible could be on your mind. For this reason, floating furniture ideas can appeal to your taste and sensibilities. Opt for storage space that remains suspended in the air with its back on the wall. It would make your area feel spacious as it leaves a lot of floor space free. At the same time, it can emerge as a flexible design in terms of cleaning. You can reach even the problematic corners with ease. The floating vanity can feature drawers without handles. In them, you can store your bathroom essentials, chargers, and other things. Shallow shelves can contain attractive lotion and potion bottles. A traditional hinged door can again eat into space as they swing open into the bathroom. Due to this, your movement can become restricted while accessing shower or sanitaryware. You can replace it with a bi-fold design to retrieve the otherwise occupied inches and avoid bumping into a shower door. Eaves can be a tricky part of the layout, but you can utilize it to build a chic corner. You can install a bath-shower combo by placing the shower at the maximum height; the bath can extend over the bottom width. For privacy and to stop water from splashing outside the area, you can buy shower screens. Since these can be expensive, you can opt for a custom-made shower curtain rail. You wouldn’t have to spend much on this, and at the same time, you can come out of the shower quickly. Small bathrooms can look incredible with curved shower units. But sometimes, they look out of place. If you want to make your layout enjoyable, remove one part of the rectangular design to add a stylish shower design with two open, frameless glass panels.  It would allow the tiled floor to continue without any hindrance, thus creating a sense of space. When every inch counts, it becomesessential to be wise with whatever is available. Hence, you can think of decorating tight spaces with small sinks for full optimization. Small sink designs in vessel shape can make a fantastic choice because of their style, color, and excellent surface. You don’t need massive countertops for them. Whether it’s a small table or a proper cabinet worktop, you can adorn any of them with this to eliminate the risk of crowding. Plus, these modern designs look fabulous. No matter what interior theme you follow, it can be an elegant partner. Please choose the right faucet for it to derive the highest value out of the overall installation. Particularly in a small bathroom, you would want to make sure there is enough light. Designers suggest the use of layered lighting. You can mix and match sconces, decorative fittings, and high-hats. Make sure these have separate switches and are on the dim mode. These are some of the small bathroom design ideas. You can include all the elements in your layout or pick and choose a few to replicate. It is up to you. Make sure you feel happy no matter what you select for it. If it is a master bathroom, your focus can be more on creating a balance between beauty and performance. However, a place like the powder room can be a bit of a show-off. You can make it decorative to impress your guests. Nevertheless, decisions have to be yours. You must understand your taste and personality to make it suitable for your needs. If there are other members also, you would want to secure their interest too. To be precise, you may change your wood bathroom flooring to marble or tiles if there are kids at home as it can get easily infected with bacteria.Like this, you would have to progress with your design work to achieve a successful layout in the end. 