Construction sites often consist of a wide range of large objects, power tools, and heavy equipment. Dust spreads everywhere, nails frequently scatter on the ground, and being in the wrong place at the wrong time can have life-threatening consequences. Consequently, Construction Site Safety is something on the minds of many individuals at work in the construction industry, since anything can happen that could potentially harm individuals working in construction areas. Fast globalization results in more construction projects every day. As a result, more developers and contractors are venturing in construction. If you’re interested in doing the same, it’s imperative that you and your personnel get the relevant OSHA training courses on Construction Site Safety. eval(ez_write_tag([[300,250],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-4','ezslot_1',115,'0','0'])); Most folks think these courses are only good to warrant the security of the workplace. Well, this is one of the most obvious advantages. It’s also important for a range of other reasons. Highlighted below are some of the reasons why you should take part in such activities: eval(ez_write_tag([[580,400],'constructionreviewonline_com-box-4','ezslot_4',117,'0','0'])); OSHA Official certification puts your company ahead of the curve. Such training programs also aid in streamlining operations. A certified firm is an excellent marketing tool and something to brag about. Although OSHA training courses are voluntary and not necessitated by law, you can show dependability to your clients simply by having knowledgeable personnel who conform to high standards.  Having employees that are conscious of the different risks will help reduce the odds of potential incidents. Even if you still have to invest in insurance, an enlightened team is your first shield against accidents. Training is also worthwhile in the sense that you don’t have to enroll all your employees in the program. You can train a select few, get them certified, and have them train other employees.  There are two types of Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) courses: the OSHA 10 and OSHA 30 training classes. Both provide your workers with the necessary knowledge. The 10-hour class covers the basics. It incorporates discussions about accident prevention, health hazards, and safety. The 30-hour classes are more detailed, as they cover different standards, procedures, and policies. These are better suited for project managers and supervisors. Always go for trainers who cater specifically to your field of work. Broad experience in the industry is critical since safety training is a sensitive issue.  Be a better developer or contractor simply by getting the right safety training.  Want to get an OSHA card but have no idea where to start? Some states are now demanding OSHA training. So how do you know the type of course you need? The following are the questions you need to ask: Do you need the most applied for OSHA course: the OSHA 10-hour Training program for the Construction Industry?  Or do you need what is called the General Industry OSHA Outreach course? Recently, seven states have enforced laws requiring construction personnel, employers, and contractors to get their OSHA 10 hour certification. These include:   A General Industry OSHA 30- hour course include topics like Ergonomics, Walking and Working Surfaces, Material Handling, Personal protective equipment, Bloodborne Pathogens and more. As a rule, most personnel need either the 10 or 30-hour Outreach card. Both of these are offered for General Industry or Construction. Even if you’re not required by law to have either, it might come in handy for a future project. Owning an OSHA card is an added bonus to all workers: from theme parks to the medical field. Though your job or state don’t ask demand for it, it might be useful to get OSHA training and add it to your resume. So how do you enroll for the training program? Well, online OSHA training is the best option and the most accessible. Most individuals opt for online training programs since live classroom courses fill up quickly, and to cut travel costs. Make sure you go for a provider that provides OSHA accepted courses. Generally, the site will say OSHA accredited, authorized, or accepted. Upon registering for a course, you’ll generally have six months to complete. There is a course trainer available to you for any questions you might have. At the end of the course is a final exam, in which you have to attain 70 percent or higher in order to get your certificate. Most providers deliver your OSHA certificate/ card within ten working days.  The fact remains that construction sites are unsafe places, regardless of the measures taken to improve safety. With the presence of small hazards, dangerous working areas, and heavy equipment, accidents are bound to happen. But the chances of these occurrences are extremely reduced if the right safety measures are considered.