eval(ez_write_tag([[468,60],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3','ezslot_1',114,'0','0']));Industrial processes like lifting, pulling, positioning and clamping need secure work holders. Magnets and magnetic chucks have an important role in securing these work holders with enough grip. You can find a wide range at RS Components. They allow smooth industrial processes like shaping, milling, turning, drilling, and grinding in industrial units, machine shops and other manufacturing workplaces. It’s a known fact that magnetic chucks use the magnetic force from a permanent magnet to achieve chucking or holding action. But, what are the other advantages of using magnetic chucks in your commercial applications? Let us take a look. Consistent holding pressure and clamping A significant benefit of using magnetic chucks is the consistent holding pressure and clamping force. Throughout the process, there is no variation in the degree of tightness, guaranteeing a secure hold of the workpiece. Maximum safety Unlike mechanical clamping, the constant level of gripping power of the magnetic chuck improves the safety of the industrial process. There is no fear of wobbly workpieces falling down onto workers. Faster process The uniformed holding also reduces machining-induced vibration allowing faster feeds at high speeds without much vibration and noise. This extends the tool life and improves accuracy as well. Flexible Regardless of the shape, size and dimension, any ferromagnetic workpiece can be used as a magnetic chuck. Low maintenance As there are no moving parts, bolts or clamps, magnetic chucks require very little or no maintenance. Reduction in chuck damage to the workpieces Pressure-sensitive workpieces are prone to distortion from a load of mechanical clamps. However, magnetic chucks hold the whole workpiece and thus provide an equal amount of pressure along the entire body.  For this reason, the chance of the workpiece getting damaged is minimum. Also, due to the continuous machining of all faces, there is no need to stop and relocate the workpieces. Reduce the cost of operation If the process involves multiple parts with varying dimensions, traditional mechanical clamping and fixtures require a lot of time to set up and prepare for the machining process. This extended setup time contributes to the overall reduction in the productivity of the operation. However, the use of magnetic devices reduces the setup time thereby increasing productivity. Faster assembly Using magnetic chucks to affix workpieces is faster and easier and saves time over mechanical fastening or clamping which takes a long time to assemble. This also eases the installation process even if you need to transfer it from one machine to another. No need to connect to electrical power Magnetic chucks do not depend upon an electrical current. And since there is no danger of the pieces being thrown off or released by power failure, it is safer to use magnetic chucks. Do not generate heat Magnetic chucks do not emit any heat, so there is no heat distortion to the parts or thermal deformation during the process.