eval(ez_write_tag([[250,250],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3','ezslot_8',114,'0','0']));eval(ez_write_tag([[250,250],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3','ezslot_9',114,'0','1']));Daikin, the leading global innovator and provider of advanced, high-quality air conditioning, heating, ventilation and refrigeration (HVAC-R) products and solutions for residential, commercial and industrial applications, has announced the appointment of Masaaki Miyatake as the new Daikin MEA Chairman and President. Miyatake joined Daikin as a sales engineer in Japan more than 30 years ago. Due to his exceptional abilities, he was promoted to Project Sales Manager. From Japan, he was transferred in 2017 to “Daikin Europe” in Belgium where he worked as the General Manager for the Applied Business. In July 2020, he joined Daikin MEA based in Dubai. Miyatake had led an award-winning team that developed an inverter heat-pump modular chiller in Japan. This innovative product won the 2017 “Energy Conservation Grand Prize” and the “Energy Conservation Center Chairman’s Award”. eval(ez_write_tag([[300,250],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-4','ezslot_3',115,'0','0']));“Seeking to expand its footprint in key regional markets, Daikin Middle East and Africa will open new affiliates, sales offices and service centers as well as introduce new products to enable us to reach as many customers as possible. This move will be supported by a stronger business structure and vibrant cooperation with our sales partners and other industry stakeholders. Internally, we will implement continuous career development and relevant skills training programs to strengthen our teams’ competencies, and to align with our mission to ensure best indoor air quality and deliver comfort through an energy-efficient building climate control solution.” Miyatake said. Addressing the Daikin MEA community, he highlighted the power of all teams to effect change, reach ambitious targets and transform the company in line with Daikin’s strategic Fusion 25 management plan. About Daikin Industries Daikin Industries is the global leader in developing and manufacturing advanced, high-quality air conditioning, heating, ventilation, and refrigeration products (HVAC-R) and solutions for residential, commercial, and industrial applications. Founded in Japan in 1924, the company strives to combine expertise and experience to create new innovative technologies by anticipating the future requirements of customers and society. Daikin has evolved over nine decades to employ 80,000 people with 100 production bases and presence in 150 countries worldwide. Daikin Middle East & Africa promotes and provides aftermarket support for a full range of air conditioning equipment and systems in all GCC, Middle East and Africa regions.   