The government of the Arab Republic of Egypt and that of the Republic of Sudan through their respective ministries of transport have agreed to construct a 609-kilometer railway line linking the two countries. The agreement states that the route will begin from the city of Abu Hamad in the eastern region of Sudan up to the Egyptian border on the East African side, and from the city of Aswan in Egypt to the border with Sudan, on the North African countryside. Both parties examined ways of acquiring funding to finance the feasibility studies for the project. Financing is likely to be through the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development, commonly known as the Kuwait Fund, and which is a State of Kuwait’s agency for the provision and administration of financial and technical assistance to developing countries. Also Read: Construction of highway from Juba to Terekeka in South Sudan complete On the sidelines of the signing of the agreement for the establishment of the railway line, the two countries also discussed the possibilities of constructing a road network connecting Egypt and Sudan through Chad and another one extending from Cairo to Cape Town passing through Sudan among nine other African states. Speaking of the latter, the Egyptian government has already started establishing sections of the network on its territory. That section begins from Fayoum, passes through Beni Suef, Menya, Asyut, Sohag, Qena, Luxor, Aswan, Toshki, and ends in Arkin crossing with Sudan. Also Read: Monorail project to be constructed in Egypt’s New Administrative Capital The Cairo-Cape Town Road is aimed at boosting trade exchange among the African states, creating job opportunities, and achieving comprehensive development. The Sudanese minister also requested cooperation with the Egyptian side in the maritime transportation sector, including the training of cadres at Egypt’s Arab Academy for Science, Technology, and Maritime Transportation. The Sudanese individuals working in the sector will also be trained at Egyptian seaports and the Egyptian Authority for Maritime Safety (EAMS).