Kitchen & Bathroom Design often comes with considerable costs, and for those in the market for a luxury finish, this can see their budget diminish quickly with little to show for it. However, there are ways you can achieve your client’s dream of a luxury makeover with affordability in mind. Read on to find out more. When it comes to luxury interior design, helping your clients achieve the look for less doesn’t have to mean scrimping across the board. Instead, look to make their money stretch further by investing big in one opulent focal feature that will set the tone for creating a luxe feel in the entire room. The good news is that Kitchen & Bathroom Design offer plenty of potential for installing standout features. For kitchens, it could be splashing out on a hard-wearing and stylish granite countertop, high-end appliances or an integrated island. In bathrooms, a freestanding tub or walk-in rainfall shower could be all that’s needed to take the whole room from average to outstanding. eval(ez_write_tag([[300,250],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-4','ezslot_2',115,'0','0']));The key is to put careful thought into investing more into one or two ultra-luxe items, allowing you to manage the remaining budget with minimal sacrifices on the essentials. Natural stone or hardwood flooring offers huge appeal to those in search of a luxury kitchen or bathroom, but the higher price point of the real deal can take a sizable chunk of a budget. eval(ez_write_tag([[336,280],'constructionreviewonline_com-box-4','ezslot_0',117,'0','0']));All is not lost though. If your client has their heart set on the classic look of natural stone or rustic charm of wooden floors, faux alternatives could help them realise their dream without the need to spend big. With the latest innovations in design and manufacturing, there are a host of options available that expertly replicate the natural beauty and detailing of natural stone and wood at a much more affordable price. Price isn’t the only benefit though. Real wood and stone alternatives like ultra-realistic luxury vinyl tile (LVT) flooring also boast excellent durability, as well as moisture, scratch and stain resistance without the need for periodic sealing and upkeep. Not to mention they’re typically quicker and easier to install – saving both time and money. With luxury interior updates in core areas of the home like kitchens and bathrooms, it’s important to remember that every detail has a part to play in the overall look, finish and functionality. However, this doesn’t mean you need to go all out and pay top dollar for every single item. Instead, outline with your clients which items are worth spending more on and any areas where you can give the appearance of premium without having to part with huge sums of money. This will ensure their budget goes further and is allocated to worthwhile expenditures. For instance, spending more on middle or top of the range fixtures and fittings like taps, showers and lighting is worthwhile as they’ll last for years (even with daily use). In contrast, the difference in quality between a high-priced and middle tier bathroom suite is often nominal and may not always be worth the extra spend. If you’re working to a tight budget, don’t forget to use the power of low-cost decorative accents, too. At a much more affordable price, the right pieces can project a sense of lavishness for minimal cost. Think gilded mirrors, reclaimed brass hardware and other decorative elements that can be bought cheaply, but when placed correctly will exude sophistication. Pulling off a luxury bathroom and kitchen update will inevitably cost more than your average interior design project, but using the above strategies you can demonstrate to your customers that by making considered purchases on the right items, it is possible to strike the right balance between affordability and luxury. Author bio: Alex Jones is a content creator for Trendy Floors, the home of discount flooring products with all the hallmarks of luxury – from affordable luxury vinyl tile to engineered parquet. Photo by Christian Mackie on Unsplash