The development of a long-awaited mixed-income subdivision project was recently launched in the Highland Grove community in North Side. The Highland Grove single-family housing project has taken seven years to put together. The single-family housing project is projected to cost $35 million and will involve the construction of 122 new single-family units and townhouses. The project will be constructed on an idle 40-acre piece of land that was initially the headquarters of the Virginia National Guard. Half of the project will be affordable housing units. The property is located off Dove Street and Richmond-Henrico Turnpike behind Overby-Sheppard Elementary School. The project is being developed by Better Housing Coalition, a nonprofit. It may take a year before the actual construction of the project starts. Ellen F. Robertson, the Sixth District Councilwoman has been on the frontline in pushing for this project since 2013 and is expected to lead the ceremonial start of the project whose development will involve City Hall and the Richmond Redevelopment and Housing Authority, the landowner. In a statement, Better Housing Coalition president and chief executive officer Greta J. Harris said BHC will partner in the Highland Grove single-family housing project as the master developer. Before the actual development of the project can start, BHC will undertake the development of certain amenities like building streets, installation of lighting, underground utilities, curbs, and other infrastructure. According to Ms. Harris, the planning and installation of these infrastructures may take time but completion of the entire project is slated for late 2021 or early 2022. Ms. Harris said the project’s final contract is being negotiated and design work on the infrastructures will start immediately a deal is inked. The city has set aside around $4 million for the development of the infrastructure but more may be required. BHC has assembled a team of other nonprofit organizations that will help fund the project after the installation of the infrastructure.