The following are some of the top crane manufacturers in China Sym Hoist & Tower Crane Equipment Co., Ltd located in Shenyang China is one of the biggest supplier and export of tower crane, luffing crane, topless crane, passenger hoist along with the spare parts for them. With 20 years′ experience on tower crane rent, installation, repair and reconstruction, the company has more than 50 experienced mechanical and electrical engineer responsible for the installation guide, failure diagnosis, maintainance and reconstruction for the tower crane at the construction site. Having a long-term and good cooperative relationship with China′s most famous manufacturer of tower crane and passenger hoist like YONGMAO, SANYO, Sichuan SCM, Zoomlion, GJJ, BAODA, etc. The company offers the best quality original tower crane and passenger hoist with most competitive price. Xuzhou Jiufa Construction Machinery Co, Ltd. (XJCM) was founded in 2002. As the first manufacturer and leader of rough terrain crane, we are manufacturing and developing the rough terrain crane, truck crane, multifunction pipe layer and the relative accessories. The company also supplies to our customer the truck-mounted crane, all terrain crane, crawler crane, harbor wheel crane, pipeline construction equipment, aerial working platform, earthmoving machinery, road building &maintenance machinery, asphalt mixing plant, concrete mixing plant, heavy-duty truck &special purpose vehicle, logistic &harbor equipment, farm machinery and block &roof tile production line. Also Read: Top generator manufacturers in China Dahan Construction Machinery (Group) is a large-scale enterprise group in Chinese construction machinery industry, specializing in the production of “tower crane” and “construction hoist”, with registered capital of US $20m, integrating research, development, production, sales, service and finance. Founded in November, 2000, the company has rapidly become one of the best in the industry with an annual production capacity of over 10, 000 sets. Dongguan Yixin Qingjiang Machinery Manufacturing Co., Ltd. is a private enterprise with a total investment of more than 300 million RMB. The YQMM specializes in the manufacturing of a variety of tower cranes. The company owns certified documents such as “A Class Permit for Manufacturing Cranes” issued by the General Administration of Quality Supervision, Inspection and Quarantine of the People′s Republic of China, and permits for tower crane installation and maintenance, etc., and has also earned a Certificate of Honor for safety of production and excellence of quality issued by China Construction Department and its subdivisions. As one of the largest equipment professional manufacturer in the world, Katop has seven industrial bases for Construction Machinery, Hoisting Machinery, Concrete Machinery, Agricultural Machinery, Mining Machinery, Port Machinery, and Construction Material. Their main products include Topkit Tower Crane, Topless Tower Crane, Luffing Tower Crane, Construction Hoist, etc. The company is built on a 800, 000 square meters workshop, equipped with professional R&D experts and top management personalities. Standard manufacturing procedure, veteran-working staff, and advanced testing instruments are the guarantees of product quality.