Jeff Foster has been with Greystone Energy Systems for more than 20 years after six years as a Service – Sales Manager for a major Canadian distributor of HVAC equipment. Mr. Foster has grown and maintained significant sales and established distributorships throughout Europe, Middle East, Australia, and Africa. Given the vast geographical sales territories, regional business standards and cultures, Mr. Foster remains available on a 24/7 basis and prides himself with the exemplary customer service he is renowned for. The African continent, from the north to the south, provides Greystone Energy Systems with tremendous opportunities and potential as one of the fastest growing markets in the world. Most all regional governments are making huge investments in infrastructure such as roads, airports, hospitals, educational facilities and such to accommodate the ongoing population and tourism growth. The private sector is also taking advantage by building shopping malls and such, as well as establishing many private-public partnerships. Greystone knows full well the opportunities that exist in Africa, especially within Egypt, Nigeria, and Kenya. Greystone Energy Systems is a huge proponent of exhibitions and trade show opportunities throughout the world. Greystone has previously exhibited at the annual ASHRAE sponsored HVAC-R EGYPT EXPO in Cairo. We have also exhibited in the annual BIG 5 CONSTRUCT EGYPT, also in Cairo. We do. Greystone has local agents and distributors in Cairo, Egypt, as well as Nigeria, South Africa, and Kenya. Often, it makes more sense logistically to use established customers as agents as their supply chain procedures have already been established. Yes, however, the most largest or better known to Greystone would be in Egypt. These would include the Cairo Airport expansion a few years back. The Mall of Arabia in October City, Cairo as well as Africa’s largest IKEA in Cairo. Presently, one of the largest projects Greystone is involved in is Egypt’s New Ministry of Defence “Octagon” Complex. I don’t always know the projects exactly but it is safe to say we have provided quality Greystone products in several horticultural green houses, hospitals, and pharmaceutical (clean room) manufacturing companies. Of course, Greystone is recognized for it’s “Made in Canada” quality, however, most all products must meet industry standards of which we adhere to. As a global supplier, Greystone must include specific aspects and product nuances for every market. What might be acceptable here in North America, may not be accepted overseas. Greystone provides the industry with leading edge technology, not only to the global HVAC – BMS industry, we are also a major supplier to the major recognizable OEM’s of proprietary devices specifically designed for these respective companies. The trust placed on Greystone by so many companies is a privilege we do not take for granted, nor are we willing to risk. Another feature recently added is our mobile app allowing for product selection as well as paperless installation, troubleshooting and commissioning. It’s the perfect tool for the buyer, installer/technician, and end-user. Companies dealing with Greystone enjoy the pinnacle of customer service, top quality products backed by an industry leading warranty. We do not discriminate, from the largest OEM to the “little guy” trying to sustain a living. We treat everyone equally. Our facilities, people, and capabilities allow us to provide a solution to your applications and requirements. Our company is strategically placed in a major distribution hub for most all global carriers meaning our products can get to your location in rapid time. We know that Greystone is not alone in our industry and we will never become complacent to have our customers consider going elsewhere. The fact that our staff as well as our customers have been with Greystone for so many years is testament to the culture of our company from inside as well as outside. And that is a culture of trust. You can trust to receive the best customer service, the best price, the best product, backed by the best warranty. About Greystone Established in 1983, Greystone has over 30 years of experience designing, manufacturing and supplying HVAC sensors and transmitters for Building Automation Management Systems. Headquartered in Moncton, NB, our global family consists of over 120 employees, across 9 locations globally, including regional sales offices in Dubai, India, Singapore and Malaysia. Since its inception, Greystone’s leadership has had a global focus on growth, expanding into the United States in 1987, into South East Asia shortly later in 1989, and finally expanding into the Middle East in 1998. Most recently our market expansion has focused on South and Central America, as we continue to expand within our current markets and strive to be the premier supplier of sensors and transmitters for the HVAC Industry. Greystone Energy Systems Inc. is internationally recognized as one of the largest ISO registered manufacturers of HVAC sensors and transducers for Building Automation Management Systems. We have conscientiously established a worldwide reputation as an industry leader by maintaining leading-edge design technology, prompt technical support, and a commitment to on-time deliveries. 