JinkoSolar has started construction of a new 16 GW solar park that will produce module production base in Yiwu city, Zhejiang province. The two-stage 600,000m² facility costs US$1.55 billion and was signed off with by the local government in September of 2019. The China National Energy Administration officially stated that the nation can add no more than 48.45 GW of solar to the grid this year. The authority said that grid capacity has been availed by China’s three largest electricity network operators – the State Grid, the China Southern Power Grid and the Inner Mongolia Power Corporation. The State Grid can host a maximum of 39.05 GW of solar this year with the southern grid and Inner Mongolia Power Corp setting aside 7.4 GW and 2 GW, respectively. Also Read: China develops 202.8 MW/MWh solar-plus-storage project in Qinghai. JinkoSolar Holding Co. is currently the world’s biggest solar panel maker and started operating the first phase of the venture, with an annual capacity of 4.8 GW, according to the statement. Construction of the second and final phase of the project is expected to start this August and be completed in February 2022. Early this year, JinkoSolar launched a 580-W solar panel for utility-scale market named the Tiger Pro module series which generates 40% higher than current mainstream 72-cell modules. The Tiger Pro modules use half-cut cells, nine busbars and tiling/shingling ribbon technology to improve performance. Efficiencies have been recorded at 21.6%. Equipped with Jinko’s tiling ribbon technology, the products are based on monocrystalline PERC cells. They are all available in mono and bifacial versions. “We developed these products based on our long experience in both big power plants and the residential market,” Alberto Cuter, Jinko’s general manager for LatAm and Italy, stated. “The products have been designed to respond to the high-quality demand of the industry and to reduce the LCOE of a solar power plant.” The Chinese photovoltaic module manufacturer plans to begin production of the new series in the fourth quarter of this year. “But will begin accepting the first orders from now,” Cuter said.