A US $929m contract has been awarded to Gammon Engineering & Construction by Airport Authority Hong Kong to construct tunnels and related works for an automatic people mover (APM) and baggage handling system (BHS) at Hong Kong International Airport. The APM and BHS Tunnels and Related Works forms a major part of the Three Runway Systems (3RS) project at the airport and will facilitate travellers to move between the new Third Runway Concourse and the expanded Terminal 2. The scope of work includes combined 1.8km-long eight-cell tunnel structures for the APM and BHS systems, 19 ancillary buildings, as well as building services and airport systems installations. Also Read: OPDC approves plan for Old Oak Common HS2 station project in London, UK According to Thomas Ho, Chief Executive of Gammon, they are delighted Airport Authority Hong Kong has chosen Gammon to deliver this key element of the 3RS works. “We bring a highly mechanised approach to the works that includes the use of specialist plant that will allow us to improve productivity. We have also been able to reduce the labour content of the work using innovative temporary works solutions and have chosen designs that support reuse of struts,” he said. He further added that their modular solutions for 75% of the electrical and mechanical works for the tunnels will mean an increase in activities carried out off site in controlled factory environments for improved end quality of product and safer, more streamlined installation for our workforce. “I’m pleased that we are able to provide proposals that both meet the Airport Authority’s needs and support some of the goals of our sustainability strategy,” affirmed the CEO. Gammon will adopt an ‘Integrated Digital Project Delivery’ approach on the contract, for which centralised and shared Building Information Modelling (BIM) will form a key element. Its strength in DfMA will also maximise consistency, efficiency, precision and quality in the project. The company will utilise some of its considerable in-house resources to deliver the project, including Civils and Foundations departments, Gammon E&M, Gammon Concrete, Gammon Plant and Lambeth Associates for temporary works design.