Phase II redevelopment works are underway at Ontario Power Generation’s (OPG) Calabogie Generating Station (GS) in eastern Ontario. The facility, located along the Madawaska River, is expected to be completed by 2022 and will power about 10,000 homes with clean, low-cost renewable electricity. According to Mike Martelli, OPG’s President of Renewable Generation, they are excited to rebuild one of their oldest generating stations, especially during these unprecedented times. “Many options were considered over the years, including retrofitting the existing century-old powerhouse, but a complete redevelopment was determined to be the best option and we’re proud to bring more clean energy to Ontario’s grid,” he said. John Yakabuski, MPP Renfrew-Nipissing-Pembroke said that the project will employ skilled trades from eastern Ontario and that injection of capital will have a positive impact on people’s lives. Also Read: OPG awards contract for Calabogie Generating Station redevelopment Phase II project Constructed in 1917, the five-megawatt (MW) Calabogie Generating Station was extensively damaged by a tornado in 2018. The new facility will replace the original, century-old powerhouse with a new, higher capacity powerhouse that will double its capacity for clean, hydro generation from five to approximately 10 MW. OPG is investing over $100 million to redevelop the site. Throughout the planning and execution phases, OPG has consulted with Indigenous communities, including the Algonquins of Ontario, Algonquins of Pikwakanagan First Nation, and four Williams Treaties First Nations – Alderville First Nation, Curve Lake First Nation, Hiawatha First Nation and Scugog Island First Nation. OPG is the largest electricity generator in the province, providing almost half of the power Ontarians rely on every day. They have been proudly operating in eastern Ontario for over 100 years. Today, they have one thermal facility and 10 hydroelectric generating stations on the St. Lawrence, Ottawa and Madawaska Rivers. OPG is also one of the most diverse generators in North America, with expertise in nuclear, hydroelectric, biomass, solar and natural gas technologies.