The following are the top construction companies in the world China State Construction Engineering Corporation (CSCEC) is the largest construction company in the world by contracting revenue. The company has various subsidiaries, with its main business units being planning and design, project development, equipment leasing, trade, construction and facilities management. CSCEC has been involved in large projects around the world with financing assistance from the Export-Import Bank of China. The company was in the limelight in early 2020 for urgently building two hospitals in Wuhan in the span of 10 to 12 days after the COVID -19 (Corona virus) outbreak in China. Larsen & Toubro is an Indian multinational company engaged in technology, engineering, construction, manufacturing and financial services with over US $21bn in annual revenue. It operates in over 30 countries worldwide. A strong, customer-focused approach and the constant quest for top-class quality have enabled L&T to attain and sustain leadership in its major lines of business for eight decades. STRABAG SE is a European-based technology group for construction services, a leader in innovation and financial strength. Their services span all areas of the construction industry and cover the entire construction value chain. They create added value for clients by their specialised entities integrating the most diverse services and assuming responsibility for them. The company brings together people, materials and machinery at the right place and at the right time in order to realise even complex construction projects – on schedule, of the highest quality and at the best price. The hard work and dedication of its more than 75,000 employees allows them to generate an annual output volume of around US $18.1bn. At the same time, a dense network of numerous subsidiaries in many European countries and on other continents is helping to expand the area of operation far beyond the borders of Austria and Germany. Also Read: 10 top construction companies in USA Skanska is a Swedish based company that has many subsidiaries around Sweden and the world. The company specializes in building construction, civil infrastructure and developing commercial properties. Skanska is a leader in the industry with in-depth expertise in all aspects of construction, management, development, architecture and engineering. They apply cutting-edge construction methods and technologies to ensure that the clients’ projects, large or small, are built to meet and exceed their expectations. The company has an annual estimated revenue of US $18.7bn and has employed over 35,000 people. Vinci is a French based company that has quite a large footprint at the global stage. VINCI Construction’s business model is based on three complementary pillars to provide long-term support for customers on projects spanning a wide spectrum of technical features, scales and geographies. With more than 30,000 projects in progress, VINCI Construction is committed across all eight of its businesses including: buildings, functional facilities, transport infrastructure, water infrastructure, renewable and nuclear energy among others; to supporting major transformational change worldwide. The company has over US $16bn in annual revenue China Communications Construction Company Limited (CCCC) was founded by China Communications Construction Group (CCCG). The company was incorporated on 8th October 2006. CCCC has 34 wholly owned or controlled subsidiaries and all of them as a group are principally engaged in the design and construction of transportation infrastructure, dredging and heavy machinery manufacturing business. The company covers the following business aspects: port, terminal, road, bridge, railway, tunnel, civil work design and construction, capital dredging and reclamation dredging, container crane, heavy marine machinery, large steel structure and road machinery manufacturing, and international project contracting, import and export trading services. CCCC employs over 100,000. Bechtel is a trusted engineering, construction and project management partner to industry and government. Differentiated by the quality of their staff and their relentless drive to deliver the most successful outcomes, they align their capabilities to the customers’ objectives to create a lasting positive impact. Since 1898, they have helped customers complete more than 25,000 projects in 160 countries on all seven continents that have created jobs, grown economies, improved the resiliency of the world’s infrastructure, increased access to energy, resources, and vital services, and made the world a safer, cleaner place. Bechtel serves the Infrastructure; Nuclear, Security & Environmental; Oil, Gas & Chemicals; and Mining & Metals markets. Our services span from initial planning and investment, through start-up and operations 