Construction of US $620.8m regeneration scheme in Tottenham Hale, UK has began. This is after the developer Argent Related signed three contracts to deliver 412 homes, appointing Galliford Try and United Living. The contracts will see the delivery of a mix of market sale, affordable homes, both council homes for the London Borough of Haringey and Shared Ownership, across three plots. It is part of a masterplan to deliver 1,030 new homes which will sit alongside 15 new retail spaces, co-working and office space, a cinema, a new primary care health centre and two football pitches worth of well-lit elegantly-paved public space, located next to Tottenham Hale underground station. Also Read: LCC approves plans for next phase of US $496.2m Kirkstall Forge project in UK Galliford Try, one of the UK’s leading construction groups, will lead on the delivery of two plots, 1 Ashley Road and 2 Ashley Road, providing a total of 281 homes. 1 Ashley Road, launched last year as Argent Related’s first phase of the development, will provide 183 private sale apartments across two 12 and 18 adjoining storeys, designed by Alison Brooks Architects (RIBA Stirling Prize-winner) with interior design by Conran and Partners. 2 Ashley Road will comprise 70 private sale and 28 shared ownership properties across two adjoining 14 and 5 storeys, with ground-floor retail units, communal areas and landscaping. Sage Housing, Registered Provider of outstanding affordable homes, has been appointed to operate the 28 shared ownership units. The sales opportunity for 2 Ashley Road, including Help to Buy, is set to launch in Summer 2021. National contractor United Living has also been appointed to deliver 131 council-owned homes to be provided at council rents in partnership with LB Haringey on the Welbourne site, with a mix of one, two and three-bedroom apartments, arranged over 3 and 16 storeys. It will include a communal garden and a health centre serving over 30,000 local people. According to Tom Goodall, Argent Related, Head of Residential, this marks a significant step forward for the project, creating a new centre for Tottenham Hale and much-needed homes for the area. “We are committed to delivering to the highest standard and are proud to announce partnerships with both Galliford Try and United Living. During these unprecedented times, we are pleased to be able to support the construction industry and local employment by awarding these significant contracts,” he affirmed.