The following are some of the top construction companies in China based on contracting revenue. China State Construction Engineering Corporation (CSCEC)  is the largest construction company in the world by revenue and the 14th largest general contractor in terms of overseas sales, as of 2016. The CSCEC has numerous branches or subsidiaries. It is divided into five main divisions and twelve traditional core business areas, including eight Group’s engineering offices and four Design Institutes, as well as its own national research laboratory. The main business units of the group are planning and design, project development, equipment leasing, trade, construction and facilities management. With the encouragement of the Chinese government and financing assistance from the Export-Import Bank of China, CSCEC has taken increasingly bold steps as a builder and investor of overseas projects. After the coronavirus outbreak, CSCEC urgently built two hospitals in Wuhan in the span of 10 to 12 days. The 1,000-bed Huoshenshan hospital was finished on Feb. 3, while the 1,600-bed hospital Leishenshan was finished on February 5. The China State Construction Engineering Corporation is also constructing the new Athletics and Football Stadium in Grenada. China Railway Construction Corporation Limited (CRCC) was solely established by China Railway Construction Corporation on November 5th, 2007 in Beijing, and is now a mega size construction corporation under the administration of the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission of the State Council of China (SASAC). On March 10th and 13th, 2008, CRCC was listed in Shanghai (SH, 601186) and Hong Kong (HK, 1186) respectively. CRCC, one of the world’s most powerful and largest integrated construction group, ranking the 59th among the Fortune Global 500 in 2019, and the 14th among the China 500 in 2018，as well as 3rd among ENR’s Top 250 Global Contractors, is also one of the largest engineering contractor in China. The company is currently building the longest heavy-haul railway tunnel, and the world’s first ultra-high pressure tunnel; both in China. Also Read: Top construction companies in USA China Communications Construction Company Limited (CCCC), initiated and founded by China Communications Construction Group (CCCG), was incorporated on 8 October 2006. Its H shares were listed on the Main Board of Hong Kong Stock Exchange with stock code of 1800.HK on 15 December 2006. The Company (including all of its subsidiaries except where the content otherwise requires) is the ﬁrst large state-owned transportation infrastructure group entering the overseas capital market. Among 127 central enterprises governed by SASAC, CCCC ranked No.12 in revenue and No.14 in profit for the year. The Company and its subsidiaries (collectively, the “Group”) are principally engaged in the design and construction of transportation infrastructure, dredging and heavy machinery manufacturing business. It covers the following business aspects: port, terminal, road, bridge, railway, tunnel, civil work design and construction, capital dredging and reclamation dredging, container crane, heavy marine machinery, large steel structure and road machinery manufacturing, and international project contracting, import and export trading services. It is the largest port construction and design company in China, a leading company in road and bridge construction and design, a leading railway construction company, the largest dredging company in China and the second largest dredging company (in terms of dredging capacity) in the world. The Company is also the world’s largest container crane manufacturer. The Company currently has 34 wholly- owned or controlled subsidiaries. Shanghai Construction Group (SCG), which has been undertaking many important tasks in the building and modernization of China’s cities, is the flagship of China’s building industry. SCG possesses core technologies in the construction of highrise buildings, large bridges, light railways, public culture & sport facilities, large industrial plants, major environment protection projects & etc. At the same time, SCG has also completed about 100 landmark projects in more than 30 overseas countries and regions. Shanghai Construction, with its business covering nearly the entire building industry, is capable of integrating all related social resources in its business. In the field of investment, construction and operation of urban infrastructure, Shanghai Construction owns a competitive & leading professional work force which could provide comprehensive general contacting service to the society. As the trade mark of Shanghai Construction, “SCG” has obtained the national certification of “China’s Famous Brand”. Yunnan Construction and Investment Holding Group Co.,Ltd. provides infrastructure construction services. The company runs a wide range of businesses, such as infrastructure investment and construction, investment and development in urban construction, real estate development, international investment and construction, commercial concrete production, building research, prospective design, vocational education and construction labor. Yunnan Construction and Investment Holding Group provides services in South Asia, Southeast Asia, Middle East, Africa, and other countries and regions. The company has won a lot of awards, such as 37 Luban Awards, the top construction and engineering quality award in China, and two Dayu Awards, the top prize for excellent water conservancy projects in China.