As part of its ongoing commitment to the scaffolding industry, Avontus Software is providing free access to the company’s industry-leading Scaffold Designer software, along with comprehensive training and support. The firm has said the initiative aims to help scaffolding businesses up skill employees, build new competitive advantages, and come back from the COVID-19 disruption stronger than ever. Scaffold Designer brings powerful advantages to scaffold businesses. The software dramatically accelerates the design process with a simple drag-and-drop interface and time-saving features like an instant, accurate bill of materials. In these times of virtual meetings, scaffold businesses will appreciate the ability to perform remote walkthroughs and handovers using Scaffold Designer’s advanced 3D, augmented and virtual reality (AR/VR) technology. Starting from today, businesses can use Scaffold Designer for free for 60 days, with no commitment, and enjoy the following benefits: For businesses that have had to shut down operations, this program offers a chance to up skill employees during downtime. Scaffold Designer makes this easy with a complete library of training videos accessible within the app itself. To strengthen the learning path, the Avontus team is launching a special Training and Webinars series for all interested customers. The company will release the training schedule through its website, covering essential scaffold design techniques along with exciting new capabilities. Readers can subscribe to the Avontus newsletter to get the latest training updates and materials. Andrew Smith, Avontus VP of Operations said “The construction industry in general and scaffolding businesses, in particular, are now placed in a tough position. We know that we must take action. With our tools and expertise, we can help our customers reduce operational costs so they can focus on protecting their employees,” “That’s why we want to dedicate our resources to enabling scaffolding businesses to come back from this disruption stronger than ever.” At Avontus, supporting the industry and customers remains a top priority. With the free Scaffold Designer, scaffolding businesses are empowered to build new strengths and get ready to come back stronger than ever. Scaffolding software company Avontus is helping scaffolding businesses to up skill employees, build new technology capabilities, and come back stronger.