The Texas A&M University System (TAMUS) is set to undertake an approximately US $546m expansion projects into the Texas Medical Center area. The expansion consists of two separate projects. The first project involves the US $145m purchase and renovation of an 18-story building. This building will be used to host faculty, learners, and researchers from across Texas A&M’s Health Science Center. That includes the unique Engineering Medicine degree program, “EnMed,” which offers students the opportunity to be taught simultaneously both medicine and engineering and receive two degrees—an M.D. as well as an M.S. in engineering. The new facility will provide the Health Science Center a physical space where complex problems in engineering and medicine can be explored. This project is expected to be completed in the summer of 2020. Also Read: US 2.3bn One Madison Avenue project to be developed in Manhattan, US The second project will use US $401m in private sector money and a P3 delivery method to build two new towers adjacent to the EnMed Building at the site at the southern edge of the Texas Medical Center. The first phase will include a new 19-story, 714-bed Student Housing building with priority leasing for Texas A&M medical students and Prairie View A&M nursing students. The first phase will also include the base of a second tower, including a 1.2-million SF parking garage with 2,800 spaces and 15,000 SF of retail space, as well as 8,700 SF of lush green space between the buildings. The first phase is scheduled for completion in June 2022. The second phase of the P3 project will be an integrated medical plaza, a 17-story medical office building atop the parking garage. This 515,000 SF facility will be home for a variety of outpatient-centered medical uses and research, and is scheduled for completion in January 2024. Hill International was recently selected to provide project management and inspection services on the construction of a new medical and housing complex near the Texas Medical Center area of Houston. The multi-phased development will be called the Texas A&M Innovation Plaza.