These renovation tips for a small apartment offer you the opportunity to create the space of our dreams or add value for your investment. For small apartments, limited space always comes up when thinking of renovation ideas. However, lack of space should never be a hindrance to what you want to achieve, let it inspire you to be creative in making use of the available space. With innovative thinking and crafty ideas, you will be a step further in creating a cozy and stylish apartment. If you however need some tips, here are some ideas for your inspiration.  Getting enough light in a small apartment is always a challenge, but you can play around with classy ideas and come up with ways to maximize the amount of light. Also read: 4 key house renovations to do this spring Another of my renovation tips for a small apartment covers the area of storage space which is also a challenge with small apartments due to the limited area available. If you are renovating to create a space of your dream, it will not feel cozy with clutter. If it is for resale, the storage area is one consideration that buyers will be keen about. You need to think of ways to maximize storage while leaving the apartment looking spacious.  One thing you would want to achieve with renovating a small apartment is to make space appear bigger and spacious. There are several ways that you can achieve this. Creating a loft is one of the most space-saving trends with small apartments, and it is now the in-thing in creating modern small apartments. The advantage of incorporating a loft in your renovation is that you get to save on space and earn an extra room while at it. If you have high ceilings and the permits allow you to have one, consider a loft above the living area to use as a storage area for your books. You can also consider adding it in the children’s bedroom to act as a place for guests or a place to store their toys. These renovation tips for a small apartment can be challenging both financially and getting good ideas. However, with proper planning and budgeting, you can pull off the project with a breeze. Put your innovative mind in action to bring out your creative side with renovation ideas. If you are in a hurdle, the above ideas should give you a good place to start. 