The application to build US $20.1bn Sizewell C nuclear power station in Suffolk, has been submitted to the Planning Inspectorate. If approved, Sizewell C will supply around 6 million homes with always-on, low carbon electricity made in the UK. It will support the expansion of renewables and improve the UK’s national resilience by reducing the need for energy imports. The Development Consent Order (DCO) application was deferred for 2 months in recognition of the extraordinary circumstances created by the Coronavirus. Extra measures will be put in place to make it easier for local communities to scrutinise the proposals once they are published. These include extending the pre-examination period to allow more time for interested parties to register with the Planning Inspectorate. Also Read: ENEC completes significant test for Unit 4 at Barakah Nuclear plant in Abu Dhabi, UAE The new power station will provide a huge stimulus to the UK economy following the Coronavirus pandemic. Around 25,000 employment opportunities and 1,000 apprenticeships will be created during construction. In the East of England, Sizewell C will boost training and employment opportunities for young people and create long-term, well-paid jobs. Once operational, it will employ 900 people in high-skilled positions based in Suffolk. Up to 70% of the construction value will be spent with firms across the UK, including in the East of England, Wales, and in the North. Sizewell C will be a near replica of Hinkley Point C in Somerset which is delivering huge economic benefits to the South West and boosting the UK’s industrial capacity. Using the same design means Sizewell C will benefit from significantly reduced construction costs and lower risk. Innovative financing has the potential to reduce costs even further. According to Humphrey Cadoux-Hudson CBE, Managing Director, Sizewell C, Sizewell C is a net zero infrastructure project ready to kick-start the economy following the Coronavirus crisis. It will offer thousands of high-quality job opportunities and long-term employment for people living in Suffolk and it will strengthen the nuclear supply chain across the country. “On top of the economic benefits, Sizewell C will avoid 9 million tonnes of CO2 being pumped into the atmosphere each year. The project will play a key role in lowering emissions while helping the UK keep control of its low carbon future,” he said. The application for a DCO follows four rounds of public consultation which began in 2012. More than 10,000 residents and organisations in Suffolk have contributed their views and helped to shape the final proposals.