Akanu Ibiam International airport construction works have resumed, also known as the Enugu Airport in Nigeria has resumed according to the country’s Minister of Aviation, Hadi Sirika. This comes two months after the project was suspended over the coronavirus pandemic and approximately nine months since the Federal Government announced the closure of the airport to make way for its rehabilitation, repair, and expansion of the runway which was in a sorry state. Also Read: AfDB releases additional funds for Abidjan–Lagos motorway corridor development project The project would be complete and the airport reopened for commercial flight operations by Easter this year. During the suspension of the project Sirika announced that had the construction work gone on for another 14 days, the jobs would have been completed as scheduled. The announcement by minister Sirika that the federal government has organized for the return of the contractor to complete the work has revived hopes that the airport might start operations even as soon as this coming month. Workers from PW Nigeria Limited, the company in charge of the implementation of the project, have already been seen on-site laying Fiberglass and Binder Course over the regulated asphalt runway. Other works such as fencing of the perimeter, construction of emergency operations center (EOC) and a clinic, refurbishment of the terminal building, the water supply/treatment systems, and enhanced of the car parking area, and external drainage systems shall come thereafter. The minister acknowledged that the recommencement of the construction works at the southeastern airport might be faced by some obstacles including heavy rains, closure of quarries, and bitumen sources but assured that these obstacles will be surmounted in due time. Originally founded in 1948 in Ireland, PW Nigeria Limited began operations in Nigeria in 1974 and it is highly involved in mining, earthmoving, roads, and bridges, airport runways, infrastructure development, water supply & sewage, etc. The company has over 45 years of experience working in Nigeria and throughout the West Africa region and an extensive modern fleet of construction equipment and a team of highly trained and professional staff.