A 204Mw natural gas-fired power plant in Alberta located near Grande Cache has started generating power to the Alberta power grid recently during commissioning. During the final construction phase, the facility has successfully demonstrated its maximum generating capacity and environmental compliance. Despite challenging construction conditions due to weather and COVID-19, the firm has completed the construction and commissioning of the M2. In August last year, Maxim Power signed an engineering, procurement and
construction (EPC) contract with BPC Milner for the M2 project. BPC Milner is a joint venture between affiliates of PCL Construction and Black & Veatch. Maxim Power said: “This project represents an industry leading 16 month construction duration and 21 month total project horizon (from equipment procurement to project completion). “The M2 project is a testament to the Government of Alberta’s ongoing commitment to promote economic development by creating a stable and attractive investment climate. “The government’s work to ensure federal carbon policy does not inhibit investment and its introduction of the made-in-Alberta TIER program is important to this project and to MAXIM’s significant commitment to investing in Alberta’s power infrastructure.” The firm said that the natural gas-fired power plant in Alberta is a significant milestone in the province’s transition away from coal-fired generation. During the construction phase, the project has created over 120 jobs and is now expected to provide on-going employment and support of local businesses in the Grande Cache area of Alberta. Furthermore, the MAXIM is moving forward its option to increase the capacity of facility to about 300MW and reduce its operating costs significantly by investing capital in heat recovery technology, which allows the facility to operate in combined cycle mode. The natural gas-fired power plant in Alberta has demonstrated its maximum generating capacity and environmental compliance at the time of its final construction phase. Based in Calgary, Alberta, MAXIM is one of Canada’s largest truly independent power producers. MAXIM is now focussed entirely on power projects in Alberta. Its core asset – the 204 MW H.R. Milner Plant in Grande Cache, AB – is a state-of-the-art natural gas-fired power plant that commissioned in Q2, 2020.