Siemens Gamesa has selected a consortium led by GTM Normandie-Centre, a VINCI Construction France subsidiary, was selected for the construction of the wind turbine plant to be located on the Quai Joannès Couvert in the Port of Le Havre. The 20-hectare factory will be the first in the world to manufacture all main offshore wind turbine components under one roof as previously announced. “More than a third of the consortium is made up of local companies that will draw on the know-how of partners and subcontractors from the local and regional economic fabric. The work will use materials produced in Le Havre. With more than 600 000 hours of work, the project will mobilise a total of almost 350 people, with provisions designed to promote local employment.” explained Christophe Quardel, Regional Director of GTM Normandie-Centre This offshore wind turbine plant is the largest industrial project in the French renewable energy industry to date and will be used to supply Siemens Gamesa offshore wind projects in France and potentially abroad. Start of operation for the plant is scheduled to take place between the end of 2021 and early 2022. Also Read: Siemens Gamesa launches 14MW offshore Direct Drive turbine with 222-meter rotor “It has been a long journey from the award of these projects to the confirmation of the orders received today and is the result of great collaboration with customers and partners, and within our own teams. We can now look ahead to the launch of their construction. We remain fully committed to make this historic industrial plan a symbol of the French Ecological Transition as well as an example of long-term green jobs and new business opportunities for local companies,” declared Filippo Cimitan, Managing Director of Siemens Gamesa France. The Siemens Gamesa offshore manufacturing plant in Le Havre is expected to create approximately 750 direct and indirect jobs when fully operational, particularly in the fields of composite materials, mechanical assembly, and logistics. Siemens Gamesa is expected to start recruiting at the end of 2020. “Wind turbines produced in Le Havre to equip the Fécamp wind farm is excellent news for the Le Havre area and for Normandy. I am delighted to see that this major industrial project is progressing well, all the signals are now green to see the first factory in the world to produce blades and nacelles coming out of the ground on our territory. Our unfailing mobilization is bearing fruit and will lead to the creation of 750 direct and indirect jobs in Le Havre.” declared Jean Baptiste Gastinne, Mayor of Le Havre and President of Le Havre Seine Metropolis.