BayWa r.e. has bought the 45MW Dalquhandy wind farm in Scotland from Brockwell Energy for a price that was undisclosed. The project, which is located next to Coalburn in South Lanarkshire, has been allowed, having had a Section 42 application, to increase tip heights of 11 of 15 turbines to 149.9 metres approved in January. The remaining four turbines will be a maximum of 131 metres in height. The 45 MW facility on the site of what was formerly a mine near Coalburn,  is said to generate enough electricity to supply 34,000 households. It is the 11th wind farm development for BayWa r.e. in Scotland. The international firm’s assets include the 151MW North Lowther wind farm which is being built in Dumfries & Galloway. BayWa r.e. UK’s operational wind, solar and bioenergy assets across the UK and Ireland generate more than 2.1 GW of electricity. The firm has its UK head office in Glasgow. Also Read: US $183.2m wind farms to be developed in South Lanarkshire, Scotland. Gordon MacDougall, BayWa UK projects managing director, said the company is finalising details of the confirmed grid connection and going into the last stages of construction planning. Brockwell Energy said it will remain committed to the development of onshore wind capacity and the sale would enable the company to enhance its project development and site finding activity. Brockwell was originally brought about as a vehicle to use energy project development to regenerate former mining sites. Brockwell has other wind farms in North Kyle and Lanark and energy-from-waste plants in Grangemouth and Westfield, Fife. Last year, the renewables arm of German diversified group BayWa AG said that it had sold off an 18.8-MW wind project in Scotland to UK pension fund RPMI Railpen. The Tralorg wind farm, located in South Ayrshire, comprises of eight turbines that have already been erected. Once fully operational, which is expected to take place in the second quarter of 2020, the wind farm was expected to generate enough power to meet the consumption of around 15,000 homes. The project has secured grid connection with works underway and also has a 15-year contract for difference (CfD) it won in 2014.