Aggregate driveway repair is simple and can be done with just a few tools in 5 simple steps. Repair work becomes necessary when you need to cover over cracks or potholes that may develop over time owing to the elements, tear and wear. 1. Prepare the area:
Make sure to take proper precautionary measures while working with exposed aggregate driveways. You don’t want to hurt yourself. For that reason, put on working gloves while fixing concrete slabs on driveways. Before you start the project, lay all the available materials, you need for it. 2. Clean the area:
To repair the exposed aggregate driveway, cleaning of the exposed area is important. It ensures there is no debris or dirt on the driveway. After using a broom for cleaning, you can use a hose and a sprayer attachment for washing away the remaining dirt. 3. Tape the decorative sectors:
If your present driveway has decorative areas by its side, tape those to cover them up, just keep those areas open which need to be repaired. Covering the surrounding areas will prevent the concrete mixture from spreading into unwanted areas. 4. Time to mix the concrete:
Manufacturers will provide you with cement mixing directions to repair exposed aggregate driveways. Once it is done, use your shovel to pour concrete into those exposed areas. The damaged areas must have enough cement mixture. After patching, take off the tape, used for covering decorative portions.5. Time to smoothen the areas:
After getting over with the basic steps, it is time for the trowel to smoothen out the areas carefully while fixing the exposed aggregate driveways. Make sure to complete this stage quickly before the concrete starts to harden up. You have to put only the right amount of concrete and not more. Make sure to cover one section at a time, in case you have several areas to repair. Alternative Way:
The use of concrete engraving:
Some manufacturing experts might suggest the idea of concrete engraving for disguising some of the flaws or cracks in your driveways. For the concrete driveways with minor cracks and flaws, you can disguise the flaws completely by adding a pattern in the present surface region. With the help of this engraving technique, the concrete will get stained, and then a routing machine will be used for jotting down the patterns on top. It helps in creating that faux grout lines. Based on your selected pattern on exposed aggregate driveways, the flaws within the driveway will contribute to the look. There are various modern techniques you can use for repairing exposed driveways. Just hire a professional concrete contractor for exposed aggregate driveways and let them guide you through the ways with ease.