Ontario Power Generation (OPG) has awarded SNC-Lavalin and local partner M. Sullivan & Son the contract for Calabogie Generating Station redevelopment Phase II project. The cost-reimbursable contract is valued at over US $100m with work anticipated to start in June 2020 and will take two years. This contract is within SNCL Engineering Services, the cornerstone of our strategy moving forward to greater growth and profitability. The JV scope will be to decommission the existing 5MW powerhouse, excavate the forebay and tailrace in line with the hydraulic model, and construct a new two-unit powerhouse with a capacity of 10.7MW, enough to power about 10,000 homes. The award follows the completion of the front end engineering and design (FEED) phase wherein the JV developed the target cost for the execution phase through a detailed options assessment and finalization of critical designs. Also Read: Construction of new Calabogie Generating Station in Canada begins According to Sébastien Mousseau, Vice-President, Power Grid & Industrial Solutions, the redevelopment of OPG’s Calabogie Generating Station will see SNC-Lavalin apply its experience and best of class hydro expertise into one of OPG’s oldest and storied generating stations. “Our combined effort with M. Sullivan & Son continues a successful power project partnership that OPG can count on to deliver a first class modern outcome for a generating station with a century of history,” he added. Dale Clarke, Executive Vice-President, Infrastructure Services said that with OPG, the redeveloped powerhouse will double the clean power generation capacity at Calabogie without impacting the existing river regime. Constructed in 1917, the Calabogie Generating Station produced renewable, low-cost electricity on the Madawaska River. On Sept. 21, 2018, the station was affected by a tornado in the Ottawa-Gatineau region. Prior to this event, the generating station was nearing the end of its operational life. OPG is the largest electricity generator in the province, providing almost half of the power Ontarians rely on every day. They have been proudly operating in eastern Ontario for over 100 years. Today, they have one thermal facility and 10 hydroelectric generating stations on the St. Lawrence, Ottawa and Madawaska Rivers.