Below is the Grand Renaissance Dam Project timeline and all you need to know about the project from beginning to the present date. The construction project has created as much controversy as it has anticipation given the impact it will have on the region. On the one hand there is the control it will give Ethiopia over the Nile waters to the chagrin of Egypt and the benefit it will bring to neighbouring countries in terms of control of perennial flood waters and power generation 2010 Ethiopia announced plans to build the dam on the Blue Nile River with the potential to supply over 5000MW of electricity which would make it the largest hydro power project on the continent. Shortly thereafter Egypt protested citing a pre-colonial agreement that gave Egypt exclusive control over the use of the Nile waters upstream. 2011 The Ethiopian government signed a contract with Salini Impreglio S.p.A to build the dam at a cost of US$4.8 billion and the then Ethiopian Prime Minister Meles Zenawi laid a foundation stone effectively commencing construction works. That year a tripartite committee met for the first time over the GERD project and its effect on the three countries Ethiopia, Egypt and Sudan. 2012 President Mohamed Morsi of Egypt visited Ethiopia with hopes of making Ethiopia appreciate Egypt’s concerns 2013 Ethiopia diverts the Nile waters in order to begin construction of the actual dam wall. President Morsi’s regime is overthrown in Egypt and talks stall for a while before resuming 2014 In 2014 real progress appears to be made when Egypt under President El-Sisi agreed that Ethiopia can develop the dam with certain conditions. This agreement was drawn up under the Malabo Declaration Several committees, experts and consultants are commissioned to help study, provide recommendations and stave off any future disputes. By this time the dam is 32 percent complete. 2015 An agreement is signed between the three countries called the Declaration of Principles. Despite this disagreement simmers between Egypt and Ethiopia over the technical studies being done 2016 Finally, the three countries sign technical studies on the impact of the dam downstream. A disagreement, however, arises over Egypt’s proposal for more holes in the Dam 2017 Failure to reach agreement on the agreement on a report from the technical studies persists 2018 – Sisi and Abiy Ahmed agree on resuming cooperation efforts January – Egypt proposed the participation of the World Bank as a technical party with an impartial view to decide on the differences in the work of the Tripartite National Committee. However, Ethiopia rejected Egypt’s request. – Egyptian Foreign Minister Sameh Shoukry announced that an agreement has been reached, during the tripartite summit between Egypt, Ethiopia and Sudan, on ending the technical studies of the Grand Renaissance Dam within a month, and stressed on Egypt’s commitment to the Declaration of Principles. June President El-Sisi said he agreed with the Ethiopian Prime Minister Ahmed to enhance confidence and cooperation between the two countries, and that the two countries would try to reach a final agreement on the GERD that would ensure development and prosperity to the Ethiopian people and at the same time doesn’t undermine Egypt’s water needs and rights. 2019 – Negotiations stumble and resume, Egypt and Ethiopia’s leaders address the issue at the 74th UNGA June Shoukri called for negotiations on the Ethiopian Renaissance Dam to speed up and demanded accords reached between the three countries be respected. September – New round of negotiations between Egypt, Sudan and Ethiopia on the filling of the GERD reservoir and its rules of operation was launched in Cairo, at the request of Egypt, after months of suspension. The negotiations failed after Ethiopia rejected Egypt’s proposal, saying that it puts its sovereignty in question. – At the UNGA’s 74th session on 24 September, Egypt President Sisi and his Ethiopian counterpart Sahle-Work Zewde addressed the GERD problem. El-Sisi called for an international intervention in the GERD negotiations, and emphasised that “Nile water is a matter of life and an issue of existence for Egypt.” Zewde assured her country ‘s commitment to reaching a deal over GERD. October – A tripartite technical committee wrapped up four-day talks on the GERD in Khartoum, and presented their report on the outcomes of the talks to the three countries’ irrigation ministers. – A new round of meetings of the irrigation and water resources ministers of Egypt, Sudan and Ethiopia kicked off in Khartoum. – The spokesperson of the Ministry of Water Recourses and Irrigation stated that negotiations on the Grand Ethiopian Renaissance Dam (GERD) has reached a dead end due to the “intransigency” of the Ethiopian side. – The United States called on the three sides to “put forth good faith efforts to reach an agreement that preserves those rights, while simultaneously respecting each other’s Nile water equities.”