The following are some of the top generator manufacturers in China Airman generator (Zhejiang) Co., Ltd is focuses on diesel generators research and development, manufacturing, marketing and services since 2011. The company is located in Hangzhou city of Zhejiang province. They are strategic partner and designated OEM manufacturers of American Cummins (CUMMINS), UK Stanford (STAMFORD), China Yuchai (YUCHAI), China Shanghai Diesel Engine (SDEC), China Lovol (LOVOL), China YTO (YTO), China FAW Jiefang Automotive (FAWDE) and so on. Airman generator (Zhejiang) Co., Ltd is the specialist in sound-attenuated generator sets that generator clean, low-cost and high efficient power. In order to meet different kinds of your application, our products are available in sizes ranging from 9kVA to 2750 kVA. Fujian Yineng Generator Co., Ltd. Was established in 2013. It is a member of the backbone of China′s diesel generator industry. Presently, Yineng has operations in more than 20 countries and has served tens of thousands of customers. Their cooperation brands on diesel generator sets mainly include CUMMINS, PERKINS, DOOSAN, Benz and other international brands and domestic high-end brands such as YUCHAI, SHANGCHAI, WEICHAI, etc. The main cooperation brands of alternator are Stamford, Marathon, Inge, Leroy Somer and so on. According to different requirements, The company also produce mobile trailers, automatic models, silent models, multiple parallel generators and other diesel generator sets. Also Read: Top construction equipment manufacturers in China Taizhou Kaihua Diesel Generator company mainly produces 10kVA~3000kVA land use diesel generators, 20kVA ~ 1250kVA marine diesel generators, 50kVA~500kVA gas generators, as well as lighting tower gensets, diesel welding generators, diesel water pump generators and etc. They are original equipment manufacturer of Cummins diesel engine and Stamford, Marathon alternator. They also work closely with Perkins, Volvo, MTU diesel engine brands. Generator Power (Shanghai) company manufactures various diesel generators including silent generators, tank shape, mobile power station, Auto style, Incorporative power station, Remote Centralized Monitoring style etc with the power of 1KW-3000KW. As advanced emergency standby power equipment, they are widely applied to mining, plant, communication engineering, hote, hospital, buidling&road construction, army, haven, highway, railway as well as commercial facility. Jiangsu Starlight Electricity Equipments Co., Ltd, as one of the leading manufacturer of diesel gen set, they specialize in producing, assembly, testing, installation, commissioning, sale and maintenance of diesel gen set. The company supplies multiple brands of generator set, such as: Cummins, Volvo, Deutz, Doosan Daewoo, MTU, Ricardo, Shangchai, Weichai, Yuchai and Wuxi diesel engine generator set. The style of genset is varied, such as: Container genset, trailer genset, portable trailer genset, stationary genset, low noise gense etc, and also we supply design and construction of the noise reduction project up to the customer′s requirements.