In these challenging times, Puranova has designed an all-in-one HSAC SYSTEM (Health Security Access Control System). This system is the Middle East’s first chemical Free, fully customizable Gateway which integrates electronic security, health, and safety expertise within a sanitizing tunnel. Unlike other conventional disinfection tunnels in the market, PURANOVA’S HSAC SYSTEM is very unique as it does not use any harmful chemicals/ disinfecting liquids. The HSAC SYSTEM uses an ozone generator that converts normal water filled in the tank into ozonized water which is micro sprayed through nozzles forming a subtle disinfecting mist. The system’s frame can be installed in less than 10 minutes and is capable of withstanding extreme weather conditions. Here is a bonus: every time you pass through the gate, you will feel refreshed by the pleasant, safe- yet disinfecting- water mist. Why Ozone? Because ozone is effective in killing bacteria, inactivating viruses, protozoa, nematodes, fungi, cell aggregates, spores, and cysts, and according to the WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (WHO) ozone is the most efficient disinfectant for all types of microorganisms. Besides that, there are many more advantages of using Puranova HSAC system, such as:  With these challenging times and ever-changing new practices that demand more control and supervision over the workforce, we must ensure that anyone entering the establishment must all undergo mandated temperature screening /checks and disinfection. What is more, you can add as many functions as you wish to the system such as people counting sensors, handheld thermal camera, blackbody for better accuracy, disinfectant Foggers, and many more The PURANOVA HSAC SYSTEM can be complemented and customized with the health, safety, and security components with extra add-on features that help maintain the wellbeing for everyone!  The HSAC SYSTEM is designed as a sanitary barrier for use in shopping malls, hotels, hospitals, public transport, residential areas, universities, offices, warehouses, airports, factories, and other places that have high pedestrian traffic. This will help to eliminate VIRUSES (COVID-19), BACTERIA, and ANY CROSS CONTAMINATION that a person may have on their clothing or articles that they carry with them.