Saving the Planet starts with you. Did you know that while you are saving the Planet and carrying out home efficiency improvements, you are lessening your house bills? You can save a considerable amount of cash with proper energy-efficient steps and adequate investment. Would you like to have as low as possible heating bills? Here is how you can become more eco-friendly and apply simple Home Energy-Efficiency Improvements. Proper insulation is such an essential step that people often tend to overlook it. If you missed conducting appropriate home insulation, you should be ready for some high heating bills. A properly insulated house can save you up to $500 a year (depending on the size of the house). If your house has specific walls, curves, and so on, don’t be afraid to call in a professional and find the perfect solution for your home. Anything is possible today when you know how to do it. So, if you don’t know how to do it, call in someone who knows. If you are serious about saving energy, you should know how you may be wasting energy. This is why an energy audit is essential and why you should think about hiring an energy professional to inspect your home and determine where and how efficiency can be improved. You should follow the given advice. If you don’t trust one energy professional, you should ask for a second opinion, and find the best solution. Once the energy efficiency audit is done, start the repair process ASAP. This may come as a surprise, but doors and windows and severely impact energy consumption. For example, did you know that aluminum windows are a great heat conductor? This means that those windows aren’t the best choice for keeping hot air on one side or the other. So, window replacement is a real option when it comes to keeping the temperature in your home consisting of a tent. Plus, with new windows, you will be able to enjoy the beautiful outdoors. In an era of technology, it would be a shame not to use its perks. Install a smart or even programmable thermostat in your home. With this small but efficient object, you will be able to adjust the temperature to your family’s usage patterns: they know when you’re working on the weekdays or home on the weekends, and based on that, they can lower or raise the temperature. Plus, you can program these nearby objects to use less energy while you’re asleep or away from home. Proper lighting can make your home look better and make you feel more pleasant, but it can also make you less energy-efficient. Did you know light holds up to 15% of energy usage? Be energy-else and switch to Light-Emitting Diodes (LEDs). They have evolved over the years, and they are more pleasant in the eye, with varying degrees of brightness and colors. On top of that, they are compatible with all fittings. When it comes to Home Energy-Efficiency Improvements Solar photovoltaic panels or solar panels are convenient, energy-efficient and can save you a tremendous amount of money. You can place them on any roof, and they work on any light – meaning: they don’t need a high temperature to generate electricity, because if it’s light enough to see, it’s light enough for solar panels to work. Solar panels are an expensive home investment on one side, and so beneficial on the other side. Sealing Air Leaks and Adding Insulation
Switch off the lights
Nudge down your thermostat
Avoid using standby mode
Time your shower
Never leave the tap running
Use a glass for mouthwash when brushing your teeth
Switch off your computer monitor during long periods of non-use
Unplug battery chargers