Construction of The Grant mixed-use complex of 228 luxury apartments in US by Hines along with investment partner MetLife Investment Management has begun. Hines and MetLife have partnered on numerous projects together, and The Grant marks a continuation of the two firms’ longstanding history of successful partnership. The Grant will include studio, one-bedroom and two-bedroom apartments ranging from 506 to 1,211 square feet, featuring high-end finishes and thoughtfully designed floorplans. Best-in-class amenities will include a swimming pool, roof deck, clubhouse, outdoor fitness areas, fire pits, bicycle parking and space for dogs, in addition to 328 parking spaces. The project will be comprised of two buildings separated by Clayton Road, with the north building consisting of 139 apartment units and ground-floor retail and the south building consisting of 89 units. The project, spanning two adjacent blocks in downtown Concord, is conveniently located one block from both the Concord BART station and Todos Santos Plaza, the commercial and historical heart of Concord. With a Walk Score of 94, there are over 30 restaurants and retail options within a short walk of The Grant. The site is centrally located at the intersection of I-680 and Highway 242, allowing residents excellent access throughout the East Bay and to San Francisco. Also Read: Construction of The Ascent at Top of the Hill project in Cleveland Heights, Ohio, US begins According to Hines Senior Managing Director George Clever, the beginning of construction  marks an exciting milestone for The Grant and they are thrilled to expand their multifamily portfolio in Concord. “With its excellent amenities and irreplaceable location, The Grant will set a new standard for living in the East Bay,” he added Hines has assembled an experienced team for The Grant, including, Architects Orange, design architect & landscape architect; Haven Design Studio, interior design; and Brown Construction, general contractor. Hines and its partners are mindful of the current impact of COVID-19 and through Brown Construction’s leadership, The Grant’s on-site team will be taking necessary safety measures into consideration as part of the construction process. The Grant is expected to be completed in the third quarter of 2022. Leasing is slated to begin April 2022.