The following are some of the top construction equipment manufacturers in China Sany Heavy Industry Co., Ltd. is a Chinese multinational heavy equipment manufacturing company headquartered in Changsha, Hunan Province. It is the sixth-largest heavy equipment manufacturer in the world, and the first in its industry in China to enter the FT Global 500 and the Forbes Global 2000 rankings. Its founder and main shareholder is Liang Wengen. Sany has a dozen industrial parks in China plus manufacturing facilities in Australia, Belarus, Brazil, Canada, Germany, India, Indonesia, Kazakhstan, Russia, Ukraine and in the United States. The company has approximately 90,000 employees worldwide. In 2010 the operating income of Sany reached just under 34 billion RMB, a 79% year-on-year increase. Founded in 1992, Zoomlion Heavy Industry Science & Technology Co., Ltd. is mainly engaged in developing and manufacturing major high-tech equipment in the areas of engineering industry and agricultural industry. With more than 20 years of innovation and development, the company is now a global enterprise possessing 10 major categories and 55 product lines, as well as nearly 460 leading products. Zoomlion is China’s first construction machinery company to be listed on both Shenzhen and Hong Kong stock exchanges, with registered capital amounting to RMB 7.664 billion. At present, the company is actively promoting strategic transformation, aiming to build a high-end equipment manufacturing enterprise integrating engineering machinery, agricultural machinery and financial services. Zoomlion has manufacturing bases around the world, among which there are 14 large industrial and technological parks in China. Also Read: Top heavy equipment manufacturers in USA Founded in 1972, Lingong Group is the core manufacturing enterprise in China Construction Machanery Industry and is listed in Top 100 China’s Enterprises in Construction machinery and one of the Top4 China’s Construction Mechanery Groups. It consists of three core subsidiaries: Shandong Lingong Construction Machinery Co.,Ltd.(SDLG), Lingong Group Jinan Heavy Machinery Co.,Ltd. (LGMG), Lingong Special Machinery Co.,Ltd., and another 16 subsidiary companies. Its business covers 5 sectors: Construction Machinery, Mining Machinery, Aerial Work Platforms, Special Equipments, and Key Components. In May 2016, LGMG signed the agreement with Sandvik Group, the leading company in the global mining equipment field to establish a joint venture-Jinan Lingong Mining Machinery and Rock Technology Co., Ltd. (LGMRT). LGMRT will focus on providing drilling rigs and underground machinery for middle and high-end markets of mining industry. XCMG is a Chinese multinational state-owned heavy machinery manufacturing company with headquarters in Xuzhou, Jiangsu. As of 2016, it ranks 5th in the world’s construction machinery industry, 122nd among the Top 500 Chinese enterprises, 49th among the Top 100 enterprises in the Chinese manufacturing industry, and 2nd among the Top 100 enterprises in Chinese machine-building industry. These ranks are in terms of size, as it is a large enterprise Chinese construction company. In 2016 the XCMG company launched their modern dumptruck model called the XCMG DE400 which is no less than 400 tonnes (empty) making it apparently the most massive land vehicle ever and its also the largest Chinese construction vehicle ever built in production today considered by many a World Record in 2017. With a successful history spanning more than four decades, Shandong Lingong Construction Machinery Company Limited (SDLG) is now a major national enterprise in the construction machinery industry and listed in the Top 100 of China’s Mechanical Industry Enterprises. Its ever-expanding product categories range from earth-moving scrapers and excavators, road machinery and mining trucks to smaller construction machinery. With an ongoing emphasis on innovation in all phases of its design and production, SDLG adheres to its core concept of Reliability In Action to deliver ever more dependable products and services to a global customer base that continues to enjoy a sustained return on its investment.   