The government of Kenya led by President Uhuru Kenyatta has commissioned the construction of three levels 3 hospitals in Uthiru, Kibera and Mukuru Kwa Reuben in a bid to increase access to health services for Kenyans dwelling in this particular regions. Also Read: Construction of “The Alma” in Ruaka, Kenya, resumes Uthiru and Kibera will benefit from 16-bed capacity hospitals that will be erected at Muthua and Kianda respectively, while Maendeleo Village in Mukuru Kwa Reuben will get a 24-bed facility. The construction of the three hospitals is a part of 24 other similar facilities earmarked for construction in various informal settlements in the city, by the Nairobi Metropolitan Service (NMS). Approximately four weeks ago, the Nairobi Metropolitan Service (NMS) led by director-general Mohammed Badi pledged to build 24 fully functional hospitals in Nairobi’s informal settlements particularly at Viwandani, Majengo, Mathare, Kayole, Soweto, Korogocho, Kawangware, Gitare Marigu, Mukuru Kwa Njenga, Mukuru Kwa Reuben, Kibera and Githurai 44. According to Dr. Josephine Kibaru-Mbae, the NMS Health Services director, 19 out of the 24 health facilities would be built from scratch while the rest (five) would be rehabilitated. “10 out of the entire hospitals to be built will be level 2 hospitals and the rest will be level 3 hospitals” explained Dr. Kibaru-Mbae. Level 2 health facilities are dispensaries run by clinical officers and they offer outpatient services, including VCT, pharmacy, laboratory, and well-baby clinics, while Level 3 facilities (health centers) are small hospitals run by at least one doctor, clinical officers, and nurses. The latter offers services such as in-patient services, laboratory, dental, counseling, and pharmacy. Dr. Kibaru-Mbae said that the NMS’s healthcare vision for informal settlements is the provision of comprehensive quality services just like in other parts of the country. Upon completion, the 24 facilities will be supplied with drugs by the Kenya Medical Supplies Authority. The NMS Health Services director on the sidelines disclosed that there are plans to elevate Mama Lucy Hospital to a Level 5 health facility.