Contract for the construction of East Village, the second phase of Sharjah’s US $6.5bn mixed-use district, Aljada has been awarded by Arada. Located in the heart of Aljada, the East Village community is targeted at the younger generation and comprises a series of apartment blocks that are characterised by fresh and bold designs. Featuring just under 2,000 units in total, East Village is now 95% sold out. Valued at about US $115m, the full contract to build East Village involves the construction of 16 apartment blocks, set within a landscaped master plan. Work on East Village will begin immediately and the first homes are scheduled for completion in December 2021. Also Read: Construction of an ecological city begins in Yagma, Burkina Faso The East Village contract award comes during an extremely busy period of Arada. In July, the developer announced that its first-half sales had increased by 10% compared to the same period in 2019, citing significant investor uptake from UAE nationals as well as ramped-up interest following the successful opening of Madar at Aljada. Launched in February this year by HH Sheikh Dr Sultan bin Muhammad Al Qasimi, Supreme Council Member and Ruler of Sharjah, Madar at Aljada has now welcomed well over a quarter of a million visitors. The entertainment destination features a number of family-friendly attractions including: popular food district Zad, which houses 17 different types of cuisine; a free drive-in movie theatre; the Aljada Discovery Centre, which has been designed by Zaha Hadid Architects; children’s adventure playground Playscape; and a skatepark. Arada is also making significant construction progress on the first phase of Aljada, First Avenue, where it is preparing to hand over the initial homes in the third quarter of this year. Located in the fast-growing Muwaileh district in the heart of New Sharjah, Aljada is a master-planned destination spread over a 24 million square foot area that is set to transform the future of the Emirate. As well as a number of residential districts, the city also includes extensive retail, hospitality, commercial, healthcare and education offerings, all ideally located in the last large plot of available land in the centre of Sharjah.