Dubai Electricity and Water Authority (DEWA) has installed two electric vehicle Green Charger stations at the offices of Expo Dubai. DEWA is also installing 15 more stations at the Opportunity, Sustainability and Mobility pavilions for electric vehicle owners who will visit the Expo Dubai. This is part of its effort to provide a sustainable Expo Dubai for 6 months and longer. As the Official Sustainability Partner for Expo Dubai during 1 October 2021 to 31 March 2022, DEWA has invested about US $1.2bn to build the electricity and water infrastructure for the event using the latest smart systems. It will also provide clean energy to the Expo Dubai from the Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum Solar Park, the largest single-site solar park in the world based on the Independent Power Producer (IPP) model. Also Read: DEWA uses 3D printing to develop future solutions HE Saeed Mohammed Al Tayer, MD & CEO of DEWA, said that DEWA collaborates with the relevant organisations in the UAE to prepare to host the best World Expo, in Dubai. DEWA is aware of the nation’s organisations’ responsibility to carry out the wise leadership’s directives, and aims to support this. DEWA also uses all its experience and capabilities to make the Expo Dubai in 2021 compatible with the UAE and Dubai’s reputation. “To host the Expo Dubai, DEWA has completed several major projects, including constructing electricity and water transmission networks for it. The total cost of DEWA’s three substations at Expo Dubai has reached AED 420 million. We strived to complete our sustainable energy projects at this world-class event according to the highest standards of availability, reliability and efficiency. We spare no efforts to organise the event in the best possible way to prove our excellence in utilities to the world,” he said. “Our plan to install 17 electric vehicle Green Charger stations at the Expo site is part of our work to achieve the Smart Dubai initiative, launched by His Highness Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai; to make Dubai the smartest and happiest city in the world. It also supports the Dubai Plan 2021 to make Dubai a smart, sustainable and innovative city in managing its resources, improving its quality of life; consolidating Dubai’s position as a global model for a green economy,” said Al Tayer. He further mentioned that they are committed to increasing the number of hybrid and electric vehicles in Dubai, which supports the Dubai Green Mobility Strategy 2030 and the Dubai Carbon Abatement Strategy 2021 to reduce carbon emissions from the transportation sector. As the expiry date for free charging for electric vehicles approaches, DEWA has announced an extension. The extension allows private users, who register for the Green Charger Initiative to charge their vehicles for free at DEWA public charging stations until 31 December 2021. This incentive is exclusively for DEWA public charging stations and does not include home charging stations. Commercial registered users such as government, semi-government, and private organisations will be charged the tariff of 29 fils per kilowatt hour, effective from 1 January 2020. DEWA has successfully installed 240 electric vehicle charging stations in different areas of Dubai such as government offices, airports, petrol stations, shopping malls, commercial offices, clinics and hospitals, residential complexes and establishments. This is part of the Green Charger initiative, in collaboration with concerned organisations in Dubai.