Plans for phase 1A of US $847.5m Island Quarter development in Nottingham, UK have been unveiled by property investment and development group Conygar Investment. Being one of the largest regeneration schemes, the development involves the transformation of the 40-acre former Boots Island site in Nottingham and developing over two million square feet including offices, apartments among others. The first phase of the development, called Canal Turn, will include three-storey pavilion featuring two restaurants, events space and a large rooftop terrace. The project will comprise new homes, Grade A office space, creative market space, a five-star hotel, retail units, a ‘linear’ park and community space and student accommodation. Also Read: Masterplan for US $3.9bn Arden Cross scheme in UK unveiled According to Richard Watson, director of Conygar Nottingham who is overseeing the development plans, Canal Turn is phase 1A of this landmark development, creating an exciting new pavilion overlooking the canal on The Island Quarter. “Conygar has been working closely with the architects and design teams to develop these plans, not only for the first phase but also for the bigger site as well. The site will create a worldwide destination for Nottingham which will provide year-round interest and community facilities which can be used from dawn until dusk,” he said. The scheme will be built on a location which was previously called Boots Island. Speaking of the inspiration behind the designs, James Dilley, director of architect Jestico+Whiles which has worked on Canal Turn, said the the layers of cultural and historic legacy of this site go on for decades if not centuries. “What we’re producing is a pavilion that evokes the memory of the industrial and railway age – something which looks as if it’s a legacy element that’s been left on the quayside of a working canal and will blend with that history while providing incredibly up to date and current facilities for the future,” he added. The first phase of the mixed-use scheme is scheduled to be completed by 2020.