Construction of a student housing and dining facility at University of Victoria (UVic) in Victoria Canada has begun. This is after the ground braking ceremony took place in the presence of Premier John Horgan and Minister of Advanced Education and Skills Training Melanie Mark; hosted by Vice-President Finance and Operations Gayle Gorrill. The initiative to create 621 new student housing spaces, plus a modern 600-seat dining hall, classrooms and conference space, is the first major capital project since the university’s Campus Plan was renewed in 2016. Fencing at the main project site was installed in January, and work to upgrade underground services across Ring Road took place from March to May. The two new student housing and dining buildings will be located outside of Ring Road south of the Student Union Building. They are replacing the Cadboro Commons Building as well as Margaret Newton and Emily Carr residences. The three-year US $232.4m project will offer traditional dorm rooms, and new “community-living” style rooms with a shared kitchen and living area. Following UVic’s Indigenous Plan, the buildings will include an Indigenous student lounge and design elements that embrace and reflect Indigenous history and culture, as well as group and classroom space. Also Read: New York unveils plans for 291-unit affordable housing project in Brooklyn According to Gayle Gorrill, with 75% of the students arriving from outside Greater Victoria, it has long been a strategic priority for the University of Victoria to provide more on-campus housing. “Living on campus contributes to the educational experience and success of our students and we are grateful this project will provide a welcoming home away from home,” he said. Mike Wilson, director of campus planning and sustainability said that they couldn’t have predicted the past few months, but having fewer people on campus actually worked in favour of the large project. “We are moving ahead this summer with deconstruction of the old buildings, and people will start to see the structural forms of Building 1 going up by September. It is a very large site, so it is relatively easy for the crews to maintain the physical distancing requirements,” he affirmed. 