The entire construction works on the Katosi water treatment plant which is also known as Katosi Water Works (KWW) located at the lakeside town of Katosi in Mukono district, the Buganda region of Uganda, is currently 68% complete. According to Johnson Amayo, the Deputy General Manager of Technical Services at the National Water and Sewerage Corporation (NWSC), solely, the civil works are more than 95% complete while the laying of 55 km of pipelines is 80% complete. “At this stage, we are now putting much effort into the electromechanical works,” he said. Following an evaluation visit to the Katosi water treatment plant project site by the East African country’s Parliamentary Committee on Natural Resources, with this pace, the Katosi drinking water treatment plant is highly expected to be operational by February next year at the latest. The project is being carried out by a consortium comprising the Suez International of Egypt and Sogea-Satom of France. It entails the construction of a new treatment plant along the shores of Lake Victoria at Kigo, to boost piped water supply to Kampala South, and the construction of a fecal sludge treatment facility to increase sanitation and waste management in this particular region. It also includes the construction of a 15 million liter reservoir in Sonde and booster station in Namugongo. Also Read: Kayunga water supply project in Uganda receives a financial boost The new plant will also feature a 500m offshore abstraction pipeline into Lake Victoria, a SCADA system that will be integrated with the existing NWSC installations, a modern laboratory to enhance water quality monitoring and management, a mechanical workshop, a compact wastewater treatment plant, a solid waste handling, and incineration facility and a modern staff housing estate with modern amenities and recreation facilities. Upon completion, the plant will add 160,000 m³ of water per day to the city’s drinking water supply system which currently has a deficit of 70, 000m3 of water per day. The Katosi drinking water treatment plant capacity can be further expanded to 240,000 cubic meters of water per day.