A new premium garden villa community has been launched by Arada at Aljada, the 24 million square foot mixed-use destination in the heart of New Sharjah. Featuring 114 villas and townhouses set in a lushly landscaped and exclusive neighbourhood, homes in Sarab 2 will be available for sale from 10 August onwards. With a range of two-bedroom townhouses, three-bedroom townhouses and semi-detached villas and four-bedroom detached villas, Sarab 2 is targeted towards professionals, couples and families, all of whom can benefit from the balance between the tranquility of the community and its location within one of the fastest-growing mixed-use megaprojects in the region. Residents of Sarab 2 will benefit from world-class leisure and sporting facilities, including male and female gyms, a swimming pool, a children’s adventure playground, basketball and squash courts, outdoor gyms and a mosque, all of which are set in a carefully designed green community master plan. Each resident also has access to parks direct from the back door of their garden. The launch of Sarab 2 has been brought forward following the sellout of homes in the original Sarab community, the ongoing robust demand for units at Aljada and the continued strong performance of the local property market. Also Read: Contract for construction of phase 2 of Aljada community in UAE awarded The value of Sharjah real estate sold in the first half of 2020 rose by 4.1% to US $1.7bn compared to the same period a year earlier, according to data released at the beginning of August by the Sharjah Real Estate Registration Department, the Emirate’s property regulator. Arada’s own first-half results showed a 10% increase in sales in comparison to the first six months of 2019, thanks to rising demand from Emirati nationals in particular, who continue to invest heavily in both Aljada and Arada’s first project, Nasma Residences. Earlier this month, the company awarded a US $115.2m contract to build the 2,000-unit East Village community, which constitutes the second phase of Aljada, as the developer pushes ahead with the construction of the AED24 billion megaproject. Construction is also progressing rapidly on the first phase of Aljada, where the first of more than 1,400 homes are scheduled to be handed over in the third quarter.