The Netherlands has announced plans to construct the world’s largest offshore wind farm that will be located in the country’s Dutch North Sea. The wind farm named the Hollandse Kust Zuid 1-4 offshore wind energy project will be constructed by Vattenfall without any subsidy and will have a capacity of 1.5 GW, making it the largest offshore wind farm both in the Netherlands and on the globe. It is expected to begin operations by 2023  with 140 11 MW wind turbines from manufacturer Siemens Gamesa, which will be the first to be installed offshore. Vattenfall will use its new state-of-the-art facilities located in the port of IJmuiden for the new operations and for the maintenance of the farm. The world’s offshore wind farm will be connected to two substations managed by the Dutch company Tennet. Also Read: 520MW Offshore wind farm to be constructed in Hokkaido. Vattenfall won the contract for the construction of Hollandse Kust Zuid after winning the two unsubsidized auctions in 2018 and 2019. But they ended up merging the two projects into one, thus simplifying the process of development and investment and making one large project which later will be dubbed as the world’s largest. Magnus Hall, CEO of Vattenfall, clarified that “the commitment to the Hollandse Kust Zuid project is due to the company’s commitment to producing electricity free of fossil fuels for both the Netherlands and Europe. And the final decision to proceed with this investment shows that despite the crisis caused by Covid-19, the goal remains to live without fossil fuels in one generation ”. Hollandse Kust Zuid, in addition to providing affordable, clean energy, will also be a major infrastructure investment that will generate significant savings and jobs in these uncertain economic times brought about by the global pandemic. And due to the excellent cooperation with our national and international partners, we are well prepared to take the next step to carry out this historic project,” said Gunnar Groeble, Senior Vice President and Head of the Wind Power Area at Vattenfall.