The Tema Motorway Grade Separation project is not a stand alone project. It is going to bring a lot of benefits in two areas: It is going to create what the Tema Arterial Roads and Tema Motorway Project. Upon completion, the Tema arterial roads linking this roundabout to the ongoing port expansion being undertaken by Meridian Port Services would have come to an end. The plan is to open up all arterial roads from this roundabout to link the port expansion project through the Tema Hospital road into a dual two-by-three lane road. At the same time it will link Tema Motorway with the Tetteh Quarshie interchange in Accra, and the project is designed in such a way that by the time this particular project comes to a close the Tema motorway, as part of the Abidjan-Lagos project, which is being turned into a 6 lane dual carriage highway, would have also come to an end and it has been remodeled and redesigned to take the current congestion at the Tetteh Quarshie interchange. The Motorway forms an integral part of the Trans-Africa Highway, stretching from Lagos through Lomé, Accra, and Abidjan to Dakar, and effectively serves as the junction to the Sub- region and the Grade Separation forms part of the Improvement of Ghanaian International Road Corridors project. Also Read: Kazungula bridge project timeline and all you need to know Phase One of the Grade Separation project, began in February and was expected to come to completion in 28 months. This phase will see the construction of a 2.1km three lane dual carriageway with 730m underpass on the National route N1; improvement of approximately 1.9km two lane dual carriageway on the National Route N2 from the Ashiaman Roundabout onto the Harbour Road; construction of Service Road Ramps, retaining wall and box culvert, road base and pavement; construction of Pedestrian Bridges; and provision of adequate Road Safety furniture to safeguard lives and property. The Japanese government is providing the funding of approximately US $55.6m through the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA). Phase Two of the project, comprises the construction of a flyover on the Akosombo-Tema Harbour Road. The project will also conduct detailed design improvements for the rehabilitation of National Trunk Road N8 in the Central Region. In June, it was announced that the Tema Motorway Interchange is to have a police post constructed nearby. The proposed police post will be strategically placed and purposefully meant to ensure that the security for the public within that area is improved and most importantly to help with traffic management on the motorway. It will have a control tower to help with traffic management and fasten response in case of any road crashes and accidents at the heart of Tema. In July, it was announced that the second phase of the Tema Motorway Interchange project is expected to commence in September, following an agreement signed between the governments of the West African country and that of Japan. The agreement was particularly signed by the Ambassador of Japan to Ghana, Mr. Himeno Tsutomu, and the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs and Regional Integration, Charles Owiredu.