The federal government of Nigeria has embarked on a massive project under  the Presidential Power Initiative to upgrade and expand its electricity transmission and distribution network in the course of the next five years. The project includes the upgrading of 105 power substations, construction of 70 new ones, as well as installation of distribution lines. Also Read: AfDB approves US $200m for electricity development in Nigeria The project is under the Presidential Power Initiative (formerly the Nigeria Electrification Roadmap) which was formed between the government of Nigeria and that of Germany back in 2018. The government of the West African country, as far as the project is concerned, has already entered into a deal with Siemens AG and committed to an initial US$ 22M investment. The Presidential Power Initiative project will be undertaken in three phases. The first phase is focused on “quick-win” measures to increase the end-to-end operational capacity of the country’s electricity grid to 7 GW between 2020 and 2021. It entails upgrade of existing substations, construction of containerized GIS Substations, as well as the development of 132/33 kV Mobile Substations and installation of 132/33 kV (60 MVA) Transformers and transmission lines. Phase two targets to achieve 11gw between 2021-2023, with full use of existing generation and last-mile distribution capacity while phase three would see the achievement of the planned 25gw between 2023-2025 with appropriate upgrades and expansion in the generation, transmission, and distribution. Siemens AG will be working hand in hand with the Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN) and Distribution Companies (Discos) in the country throughout the entire project which would see the installation of 3,765 distribution transformers and 5,109 km distribution lines with a potential transmission capacity of over 13,000 MW as opposed to the current 4,500mw. The transmission and distribution network upgrade and expansion project are meant to address the imbalance between power generation, evacuation, dispatch, and consumption, which has been a major challenge for the population of Nigeria. Over 13 GW of grid power generation capacity is installed in the country but sadly on average, only about 3.4 GW reaches consumers.