Azizi Developments has broken ground at Creek Views II, its newly launched development on the shores of the iconic Dubai Creek in Dubai Healthcare City, a budding community that is rapidly coming to life and increasing in demand. Creek Views II will be built at a value of AED 350m. Mr Mirwais Azizi, Founder and Chairman of Azizi Developments, and Mr Farhad Azizi, CEO of Azizi Developments, in the presence of senior members of the company’s management team, officially dug the first shovel into the grounds of what will soon be another prestigious development by the esteemed developer. Also Read: Construction of Creek Views building in Dubai, UAE 37% complete This exceptional new project’s design philosophy represents Dubai’s remarkable transition from a traditional past to a modern, reinvented future. Home to 587 families, this building will comprise 116 studios, 436 one-bedroom, and 35 two-bedroom apartments. With a focus on enriching lifestyles, Creek Views II will feature two swimming pools, a sauna, a steam room, a fully equipped gym, and a children’s play area. According to Mr Mirwais Azizi, following the outstanding investor response to Creek Views I, and with it being almost entirely sold out, Azizi has now decided to launch Creek Views II, opening the doors for even more families to bask in uninhibited lavishness, modernism and connectivity, as well as enjoy unobstructed views of the stunning surroundings. “We are proud to continue to catalyse the development of the great city of Dubai, with its unparalleled safety, innovation, and continuous progress, and are honoured to call it our home. We look forward to seeing our valued stakeholders come together to add this prestigious building to our portfolio. With the help of our diligent staff, knowledgeable engineers, hardworking construction site workers, hundreds of accommodating suppliers, supportive government authorities, and a host of other stakeholders, we look forward to turn this project into homes that will enrich the lives of those who would reside in them”, he added. The project is situated in the beautifully landscaped and well-thought-out DHCC, the emirate’s health and wellness destination, with direct access to Al Khail Road. This community is not only home to a wide variety of leading, high-tech medical centres, but also comprises an abundance of lifestyle and shopping options. Creek Views II will grant picturesque views, as well as an elegant, ultra-modern design and finishing.