Civil works at the 660MW Sagardighi Supercritical Thermal Power Plant Project in West Bengal, India have begun following the issuance of the Notice To Proceed by the developer. Significantly, following the strategic completion of pre-engineering activities for the project beforehand, ground breaking has begun on zero date itself. This is a major achievement as conventionally it takes a few months after the zero date to initiate civil works onsite. Valued at at approximately Rs.3,500 Crore, the turnkey order for Sagardighi Thermal Power Project Extension Unit-5 was won by Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited (BHEL) against stiff international competitive bidding (ICB). The order for the project located at Manigram village in Murshidabad district of West Bengal was placed on BHEL by West Bengal Power Development Corporation (WBPDCL). The Notice to Proceed was issued after obtaining the necessary approvals like environmental clearances. Also Read: 1,320MW thermal power plant to be set up in Madhya Pradesh, India BHEL’s scope of work in the Sagardighi Thermal Power Plant project includes design, engineering, manufacture, supply, erection, testing and commissioning of the Main Plant Turnkey Package, comprising supercritical boiler and turbine generator along with its auxiliaries, electricals, controls & instrumentation, switchyard, flue gas desulphurization (FGD) and selective catalytic reduction (SCR) systems, coal handling plant and ash handling plant. The key equipment for the project will be manufactured at BHEL’s Trichy, Haridwar, Bhopal, Ranipet, Hyderabad, Jhansi, Thirumayam and Bengaluru plants, while the company’s Power Sector – Eastern Region division will be responsible for construction and installation activities on site. Sagardighi Thermal Power Station is already equipped with 2 sets of 500 MW installed by BHEL in 2016. Significantly, BHEL has so far contributed over 80% of the total coalbased generating capacity of WBPDCL. In addition to Sagardighi, BHEL has executed projects at Bakreswar (5×210 MW), Kolaghat TPS (6×210 MW), Bandel TPS (1×210 MW) and Santaldih TPS (4×120 MW + 2×250 MW) for WBPDCL. BHEL-installed units are running successfully and form the backbone of electricity generation in the state of West Bengal.