The construction works of the first phase of the University of Environment and Sustainable Development (UESD), also known as the Eastern University is reportedly complete. This work includes the construction of key offices and the lecture hall block which has 13 halls with a total seating capacity of 1,545, a video conference room with a seating capacity of 40, and a computer Research Room with a seating capacity of 24. Other completed works are the construction of road networks across the university as well as the residences of the Vice-Chancellor, Pro-Vice-Chancellor, and the Laboratory, students’ common room, telecom rooms, washrooms and stores among others. Also Read: Ghana to construct new health facilities in Ashanti and Eastern regions Technologies such as biogas generation, rainwater harvesting, green and solar-paneled roofs, and other energy-efficient building systems have been put into consideration so as to achieve the overall goal of sustainable development. The project is being executed by CONTRACTA Construction, an engineering company that originates in Brazil and whose core businesses is Engineering & Construction and Real Estate development. Upon completion, the university will specialize in the conduct of research and knowledge dissemination in the sciences, agro-business, and the built environment. This new university will offer general and specialized programs to fill the gaps and ensure well-rounded training for environmental and sustainable development professionals in Ghana. These include degree programs and research in climate change, water resources development, energy sustainability, energy economics and policy, urban architecture, natural resources, and environmental economics, environmental policy and environmental science. The idea to construct the university was conceived in April 2013, approved by the parliament the following year and endorsed by the then president in 2016. At the beginning of the fourth quarter of 2016, the parliament ratified an agreement between the Government of Ghana and the Deutsche Bank for a 38-million euro loan for the construction of the university.