Seven new gates have been opened in the LaGuardia Airport Terminal B Western Concourse (Concourse A North), the latest achievement towards the completion of the LaGuardia Airport Terminal B redevelopment. Servicing American Airlines, the seven new gates within the 250,000 square-foot, four-level, light-filled Western Concourse are now open to the public, one month ahead of schedule. Customers will experience soaring 55-foot high ceilings and floor-to-ceiling windows that allow for ample natural lighting, modern restrooms with carefully selected amenities, and an indoor park with benches, landscaping and trees. Also Read: LaGuardia Airport in New York, US opens Terminal B Headhouse The Terminal B Western Concourse is a near replica of the Eastern Concourse, which opened to the public in December 2018 and, by early 2021, will house a total of 18 gates with modern customer amenities, state-of-the-art architecture, and more spacious gate areas. After the Western Concourse completion, Skanska-Walsh will have delivered 35 new gates for the new Terminal B. According to Richard Kennedy, President and CEO, Skanska USA, they are thrilled to celebrate another significant milestone at LaGuardia Airport, the largest and one of the most complex projects in Skanska’s history. “Opening these gates ahead of schedule with an exceptional safety performance is a testament to the diligence and tireless dedication of our team, subcontractors and partners—an exceptional feat in light of a global pandemic,” he said. The Western Concourse opening follows the completion of the new Terminal B Arrivals and Departures Hall (Headhouse) which opened in June. The Headhouse is the central entry point for travelers flying out of Terminal B, with seamless integration to passenger concourses and gates, the new parking garage, and the forthcoming Central Hall which will connect to Terminal C and the planned future AirTrain. The building, which spans four levels, transforms the customer experience and streamlines airport operations, unimaginable with the old facility.