Nikola has broken ground on a new 1 million-square-foot manufacturing facility in Arizona US. Located off U.S. Highway 87 at east Houser Rd and Vail Rd, the future 4.0 designed facility will incorporate the latest technology to increase connectivity 24/7 throughout the building and equipment to optimize overall energy, productivity and quality. The first phase of construction is scheduled for completion in late 2021, with the second phase projected to be complete within the following 12-18 months. The U.S.-based facility represents a capital investment of approximately US $600m and will initially produce the Nikola Tre and Nikola Two. At full production, the facility will reach approximately 35,000 units annually, running two shifts. The first Nikola Tre trucks will be produced in Ulm, Germany with partner IVECO, followed shortly after by our Coolidge facility. According to Mark Duchesne, Nikola global head of manufacturing, the reason the company exists is in support of a sustainable future so everything we do in the manufacturing process and the building site will be done to ensure the smallest environmental footprint possible while making the highest quality, high tech products that will impact the sustainability of the planet. Also Read: Tesla to construct US $1bn electric vehicle manufacturing plant in Texas, US After an 18-month national site search of various locations around the United States, led by Tom Stringer at BDO and Saint Holdings, Nikola selected Coolidge for its outstanding industrial infrastructure within the region. The decision was also further solidified by the tireless support of the state, county and city, as well as the breadth of talent, year-round sunshine conducive to renewable energy, and the infrastructure available to scale with the ambitious plans and growth trajectory Nikola has set forth. “Arizona is the best state in the nation for cutting-edge companies to make their mark. The Nikola manufacturing facility in Coolidge will produce its zero-emissions Class 8 semi-trucks and create thousands of new jobs. Congratulations to the Nikola team on breaking ground and I look forward to the continued success,” said Governor Ducey. 