Knowledge is power – contributing to this notion and in the interest of knowledge sharing – the Danfoss South Africa’s Cooling team, has embarked on a virtual training curriculum, geared to address a broad range of refrigeration content, which is targeted at the general public, at no cost to attendees. This training curriculum is not accredited to any higher learning institute but will allow for a deeper understanding of basic design and application elements; and might lend itself as a basis for future career developments in this field. The Danfoss Refrigeration Academy is focused on delivering structured, online training events in a more formal way than conventional webinars, to offer a tangible benefit upon completion. These training sessions will be diarized as to not infringe too heavily on enrollees’ daily work schedule; and provision will be made for recordings on demand, for those with commitments, which might not afford them the time to attend live sessions. This ambitious refrigeration academy has its launch date set on September 3rd 2020 and aims to host two 45-minute sessions, hosted initially on Tuesdays and Thursdays (09:00 – 09:45 & 15:00 to 15:45); and where basic topics are covered, the second session would be a repeat on the same day, to allow audiences a choice to attend either a morning or afternoon presentation. In instances where more complex topics are presented, the session will be split into a first half in the morning, leaving the remainder of the presentation for the afternoon slot. Deep-dive sessions will be hosted during evenings or weekends, for the more technical & mathematical minded attendees. These training modules will coincide with a self-study element, and Danfoss E-Learning modules, to ensure all elements are covered, beyond the curriculum. About Danfoss Danfoss is engineering technologies that enable the world of tomorrow to be better, smarter and more effective. In growing cities, we ensure the supply of fresh food and optimal comfort in homes and offices, while meeting the need for energy-efficient infrastructure, connected systems and integration of renewable energy. Our solutions are used, for example, for cooling, air conditioning, heating, controlling electric motors and mobile equipment. Our innovative engineering can be traced back to 1933, and today Danfoss is a global leader with 28,000 employees and sales in more than 100 countries. Article written by Danfoss PR contact: Lynne McCarthy, Marketing Specialist – Danfoss Turkey, Middle-East & Africa  