The government of Liberia through the state-owned Millennium Challenge Account-Liberia (MCA-L) has completed paying off all the 55 people whose properties fell within the right of way of the Monrovia Raw Water Pipeline project. According to MCA-L, the payments were made based on the extent of the impact on the affected assets i.e. crops, land, and structures, etc., through a process that ensured fairness and protection of the most vulnerable, including in some instances, equal division of funds between spouses. Also Read: Liberia signs US $34m deal for Gbedin waterfalls hydropower project MCA-L also conducted a three-month financial literacy skills training for the beneficiaries to ensure that they make smart investment choices to improve their quality of life. Funded by the Government of the United States of America through its agency, Millennium Challenge Corporation (MCC) at a tune of US$ 18M, the project will see the construction of a new 48-inch diameter Raw Water pipeline to replace the original 36-inch diameter pipeline that was destroyed during Liberia’s civil war. The Monrovia Raw Water Pipeline project is particularly meant to be used to transport water from the dam of Mt. Coffee Hydropower Plant for treatment at the White Plains Water Treatment Plant. Upon completion, this project is expected to make it possible for about 1 million people residing in Monrovia and its surrounding areas to have access to clean and safe drinking water. Moreover, it will save the Liberia Water and Sewer Corporation approximately US$780,000 a year in electricity costs, as the water will be transported using gravitational force. The construction is scheduled to be completed in October 2020. MCA-L is an independent, legal, and autonomous agency of the Government of Liberia created by the legislature to administer the compact projects, which address the lack of access to reliable and affordable electricity and inadequate road infrastructure in a bid to reduce poverty and promote economic growth.