The following are the largest infrastructure projects in Australia: US $16bn WestConnex is the largest infrastructure project in Australia, linking Western and South Western Sydney with the city, airport and port in a 33km continuous motorway. Motorists will be able to bypass up to 52 sets of traffic signals from Beverly Hills to Parramatta. Key benefits of WestConnex include: Improving motorway access and connections to Western Sydney and key employment hubs across the city, moving traffic and heavy vehicles to the underground motorway; and reducing traffic on local streets and creating opportunities for urban renewal. WestConnex also links Greater Sydney to major international gateways at Sydney Airport and Port Botany, and the future Western Harbour Tunnel, BeachesLink and F6 extension. US $12bn Sydney Metro is Australia’s biggest public transport project. From the north west, metro rail is being extended under Sydney Harbour, through new underground city stations and beyond to the south west. In 2024, Sydney will have 31 metro railway stations and a 66km standalone metro railway system, revolutionising the way Australia’s biggest city travels. Sydney Metro received planning approval on 19 December 2018 to upgrade the T3 Bankstown Line between Sydenham and Bankstown to metro standards. In 2024, customers will benefit from a new fully-air conditioned Sydney Metro train every four minutes in the peak in each direction with lifts, level platforms and platform screen doors for safety, accessibility and increased security. Also Read: Top construction companies in Australia The US $11bn Metro Tunnel project which involves the construction of: twin nine-kilometre rail tunnels from the west of the city to the south-east as part of a new Sunbury to Cranbourne/Pakenham line and Five new underground stations: Arden Station, Parkville (under Grattan Street), State Library (at the northern end of Swanston Street), Town Hall (at the southern end of Swanston Street) and Anzac (under the Domain Interchange on St Kilda Road); with two stations under Swanston Street directly connected to the City Loop at Melbourne Central and Flinders Street Station; will untangle the city loop so more trains can run more often across Melbourne. The Metro Tunnel will also create a new end-to-end rail line from Sunbury in the west to Cranbourne/Pakenham in the south-east, with high capacity trains and five new underground stations. It will create capacity on the network to enable more than a half a million additional passengers per week across Melbourne’s train network to use the rail system during the peak periods. US $9.3bn Inland Rail is a once-in-a-generation project that will enhance supply chains and complete the backbone of the national freight network by providing for a transit time of 24 hours or less for freight trains between Melbourne and Brisbane via regional Victoria, New South Wales and Queensland. Inland Rail will transform the way we move freight around the country, connect regional Australia to markets more efficiently, drive substantial cost savings for producers and consumers, and deliver significant economic benefits. Comprising 13 individual projects and spanning more than 1,700 km, Inland Rail is the largest freight rail infrastructure project in Australia and one of the most significant infrastructure projects in the world. The Bruce Highway Upgrade Program is the largest road infrastructure program Queensland has ever seen. It is aimed at improving safety, flood resilience, and capacity along the length and breadth of the highway between Brisbane and Cairns. Starting on 1 July 2013, the program was initially developed as an US $8.5bn 10-year commitment jointly funded by the Australian and Queensland Governments. In May 2018, the Australian Government committed an additional US $3.3bn (based on 80:20 funding arrangements) to its existing US $6.7bn commitment. The Queensland Government also committed to providing an additional US $200m each year (based on 80:20 funding arrangements) for upgrades on the Bruce Highway on top of the already provided US $1.8bn. In total, the program will deliver US $12.6bn of works over a 15-year period (2013–14 to 2027–28). US $6.8bn West Gate Tunnel Project will deliver a vital alternative to the West Gate Bridge. It will provide a much needed second river crossing, quicker and safer journeys, and remove thousands of trucks from residential streets. The project is a partnership between the Victorian Government and Transurban and will be built by construction contractors CPB Contractors and John Holland (CPBJH JV).