Based in France, SERGI Transformer Protector is a company specialized in the provision of transformer explosion and fire prevention solutions using its very own system dubbed “TRANSFORMER PROTECTOR (TP)”. The TP is basically a Fast Depressurization System as defined by the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) in its recommendation NFPA850. The “system” is suitable for any type of oil-immersed transformer from 100kV to over 1,000 MVA used or new and other surrounding equipment such as the On Load Tap Changer (OLTC), Oil Cable Box (OCB), and Oil Bushing Cable Box (OBCB). The TP activates within milliseconds of detection of any explosive gasses, which are generated by electrical arcs that result from the failure of electrical insulation, depressurizing the transformer main tank. Once the depressurization is complete, to avoid the bazooka effect from killing maintenance technicians during tank opening, the transformer is then injected with inert gas to evacuate any remaining explosive gases. After the explosive gases have been cleared, the transformer is then safe and ready for repair. The advantages of using a TP is that it increases system reliability, availability, and continuity protects assets and surrounding environment, prevents environmental pollution, prevents long and expensive outages, prevents human life risk, reduces operation expenditure and protects transformers even when water access is not possible/difficult, etc. With thousands of TP installed worldwide, SERGI Transformer Protector has proven to be the world leader in transformer explosion and fire prevention. Around 300 TPs have been installed in major projects in the power generation sector, Transmission and distribution (end-user) sector among others in countries such as Nigeria, Morocco, Namibia, South Africa and Zambia in Africa, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania in Europe and Kazakhstan in Asia just to mention a few. With over 20 years’ experience in passive and active operation, the SERGI Transformer Protector TP has saved hundreds of millions of US dollars to the end-users.