Ivory Coast has secured financial closure for the Atinkou power plant project. Marc Albérola, CEO of Eranove made the announcement and said that several financing agreements have been signed between the project developer, the pan-African group Eranove; the International Finance Corporation (IFC), the World Bank Group’s private sector financing arm; and the government of Ivory Coast towards the project. The financial mobilisation was carried out by the IFC from the African Development Bank (AfDB); the Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau (KfW), the German development agency; the Netherlands Development Finance Corporation (FMO); the Emerging Africa Infrastructure Fund (EAIF); as well as the Fund for International Development (OPEC Fund). Also Read: 20MW solar power plant to be developed in Guinea-Bissau The 390MW power plant which will be built as part of a public-private partnership (PPP), will be located in of Jacqueville near Abidjan. It is set to be similar to the one developed by Ciprel, a subsidiary of the Eranove group and a leading operator in power generation in Côte d’Ivoire. With an installed capacity of 390MW, Atinkou also known as Ciprel 5 in reference to the four units of this power plant operated since 1994; will use the gas-steam “combined cycle” technology which increases energy efficiency. In addition, Atinkou will undertake a technological leap by introducing the first Class F gas turbines in the Sub-Saharan Africa. These innovations will allow the production of more electricity without additional gas consumption. The cost of producing electrical energy is thus optimized and the environment is preserved by reducing CO2 emissions into the atmosphere. According to the Minister for Petroleum, Energy and Renewable Energies, Mr. Abdourahmane Cissé, this power plant is part of the State’s ambition to strengthen the country’s electricity production capacity through new units operated by experienced private partners to enable Côte d’Ivoire to double its energy capacity to 4,000MW by 2020 and to consolidate its position as an energy hub in the region.