Established in 1998 ALDHABI FALSE CEILINGS CO., is an Egypt based interior finishing product manufacturer for the global market and contracting services provider for the building and construction industry in Africa and the MENA region. In Egypt, the company is the only appointed manufacturer of GRG ceiling tiles and metal tiles & strips by GSP CO. UK and Hunter Douglas, Netherlands, respectively. ALDHABI FALSE CEILINGS CO. also produces its own metal profiles for gypsum ceilings and drywall metal systems. GRG FALSE CEILING TILES are made by combining Gypsum, an environmentally friendly 3,000-year-old material with modern-day high tech glass fiber reinforcement, traditional craft ‘know-how’ and the latest CAD-CAM technology. This unique composite material, pioneered by GSP in 1970, has evolved into a range of more than 30 standard ceiling tiles, panels, and perimeter details to provide a cost-effective solution for most suspended ceiling applications.  ALDHABI FALSE CEILINGS CO. tiles are manufactured from GRG (Glass Reinforced Gypsum) and comprise of non-combustible gypsum plaster reinforced with a glass fiber membrane resulting in a light-weight, strong, naturally pre-stressed panel. Tiles of special module sizes from 300 X 300 to 1200 X 1200 mm can be produced to order if not available as a standard product. GRC has been used for many years in structural and non-structural elements such as: Facade Panels, Columns Cladding, Corniches, Column Heads, Decorative Panels, Custom Made Designs, etc. The composition for GRC products are cement, aggregate (Silica Sand), water, AR fiberglass, polymers, water absorption, and pigments can be added, if required.  ALDHABI FALSE CEILINGS CO. false ceilings factory manufactures all types of fiberglass products such as Glass Fiber Reinforced Cement (GRC), Glass Fiber Reinforced Gypsum (GRG), and Glass Fiber Reinforced Polyester Plastic (GRP). Additionally, the company undertakes all types of GRC works by combining the art of technology and the client’s desired design through the Al Dhabi Contracting division. Its main goal is to provide clients with quality products that meet their expectations & ignite their imaginations. Metal profile All of ALDHABI FALSE CEILINGS CO. metal profiles are manufactured in compliance with ASTM 635C and materials used in production comply with ASTM C955-11A. The company’s standard sheet metal thickness is 0.6 mm with 120 gm/m2 galvanization and 3000 mm in length and it has the capability to produce different thicknesses from 0.4 up to 1 mm, galvanization up to 275 gm/m2, and lengths up to 6000 mm.  In its contracting work, ALDHABI FALSE CEILINGS CO. mainly uses 2 systems that it has developed and mastered over the years, and which are the Drywall partitioning system and suspended-ceiling system. The following are some of the projects that ALDHABI FALSE CEILINGS CO. contracting have executed using its manufactured tiles: