Registered in August 2009, Sun transfer Kenya (Stke) is a solar company in Kenya with a bold mission: Transforming rural lives and livelihoods through off-grid solar. The company is driven and inspired by the challenge of making quality solar energy accessible and affordable to over 6 million households or 60% of the off-grid households in Kenya, majority of whom are at the bottom of the pyramid (bop). At the core of Stke innovation is designing, testing and scaling last-mile distribution models to deliver the twin goals of accessibility and affordability of quality solar energy to the bop in Kenya. The Sun transfer mini-grid solutions provides solar energy to power irrigation schemes, business centres, clinics, schools and study centres in rural Kenya. They seek to provide decentralised renewable energy through a partnership of public and private sectors and donors.  The niwa portable light strikes the perfect balance between durability, performance and affordability. Designed to meet basic lighting needs in households, niwa lamps is brighter than kerosene lamps. It features a long-lasting battery and a durable design. Solar hybrid power backup system is a system whereby the solar system is integrated with utility power system to ensure continuous power supply, it can also help in saving on energy costs by selecting to use solar energy as the primary power. Sun transfer solar water heaters are designed and manufactured to last even in the harshest weather conditions, they offer two models of solar water heaters; flat plate panel and evacuated vacuum tube. Customer system capacity is determined by preference, number of house occupants or number of bedrooms. This kit features all the tools you need to solar power a barber business. The barber kit comes with a quality clipper with the ability to deliver maximum cutting power and is designed to last longer. The led solar fishing lights are charged by a solar panel and are designed to be portable and last long when fishing at night. The lights are durable, portable and can be mounted if need be. Energize the future with solar power Solar is a free natural source of energy which is naturally replenished on a human timescale, no remote infrastructure, such as an electrical grid is required for solar systems, solar also produces zero-carbon energy in high-density and mixed-use living and working environments. Suntransfer stock and distribute high-quality solar systems that last longer and are economical. They innovate and design solar home (shs) system which meet the energy needs of small businesses with an aim of extending open business hours for people living in off grid and remote areas by lighting their businesses Stke’s social business model combines end-user finance via our “pay-as-you-go”; last-mile distribution network of solar centers (sc) and local assembly to create green jobs. So far, 14 scsare operational across the country, each selling 30-40 solar home systems/mon. Sun transfer are energized by the difference they have made thus far, distributing over 50,000 solar lanterns and nearly 10,000 solar home systems, thereby transforming over 100,000 lives and livelihoods in some of the most rural and remote regions of Kenya. The great news is that this just the begining; stke’s future is brighter and our promise even bigger.