MEC srl is a leading company specializing in the design and manufacturing of machinery, plants and automatic lines for natural stone and concrete splitting, cutting and crushing. Today MEC is present in more than 70 countries around the world offering a wide range of products. Among them there are open machines for splitting irregular materials, closed machines for splitting regular and/or sawn materials, machines for cutting with one or more diamond blades. Those machines can be combined with moving systems for easier handling of the material and automatic solutions for elevated output capacity. MEC stone crushing machinery can add value to a by-product which would otherwise be treated as waste. Their quality certificate ISO 9001:2008 and safety certificate OHSAS 1800, as well as the process of continuous improvement through Kai Zen Lean (Toyota System Production) are the key points that help them to support the customer from consulting service, through the sale until after sale service. Proudly they exhibit the Made in Italy certificate issued by the Italian Marmomacchine because they believe it is important to emphasize the origin of excellence and remember that their machines, as well as their components, are entirely made in Italy. Dialogue with the customer is essential, and it is thanks to the mutual exchange of points of view, ideas, knowledge, and also, last but not least, criticism, that new solutions and new technologies were developed, and prototypes of machines have been improved over time. The careful listening and determination to meet the customer’s requirements, anticipating the needs of the market and providing machinery that enables customers to compete, in turn, in a market that is constantly changing and evolving is our goal. Providing advice to customers thus become a crucial point for Mec, aimed at fully understanding their needs, to be the able to offer the most suitable solutions. Besides supporting pre-production activities, the special attention paid to customers is also reflected in technical and commercial after-sale support given, not only with prompt service from headquarters up the whole world, but also through a wide network of representatives and various service points located in different Countries. The MEC assistance towards its customers starts from the manufacturing of the machine/plant to the installation and the recommended ordinary and extraordinary maintenance. After all necessary information for the installation has been provided, MEC makes available their proper technicians to assist the customer; besides there are also several efficient tools that help to keep the machinery in effective good condition on the customer’s own. In addition to the constant and timely assistance by phone or email, their service includes, the App MYMEC and the E-book, the latest innovation of Mec. The App MYMEC is a free multi languages application easily downloadable and accessible for every platform. Thanks to this communication tool, the customer can easily request assistance, spare parts quotation or chat directly with a Mec operator in the desired language so that he can help with the request. Projects in Africa “Our machines and installations are in more than 70 countries in the world. Of course we consider Africa an important market, we receive inquiries from this huge continent and we see how it is growing up, above all is infrastructure in construction. We have machines in North Africa, Morocco, Tunisia and Algeria, but not only that. Our machines are also in Nigeria, Cape Verde. In eastern Africa we installed the most productive automatic lines for production of cubes ever designed and produced, together with a manual splitting line in Rwanda. Many African requests are for cubes to build roads or wall stones to build houses. We have no distributors, but we follow potential customers from their starting inquiry with suggestions and recommendations about the proper machine or system, basing on the condition of their stone (kind and shape), of the final product they want to obtain, of their budget and investment as well. To make you understand Mec, we prepare a presentation. Mec work very much on customized solutions, to satisfy 100% the expectations of the customer,” explains Serena Minati from Sales department. 