The following are the leading steel manufacturers in the world Ethiopia Steel Plc is a member of Safal Group, the largest steel roofing manufacturer in Africa. It started operations in 1997, producing steel roofing products. The company has expanded into Gonder, Hawassa and Addis Abeba. It has a current capital of US$ 7mn and currently has 130 employees but hopes to add more. The company operates out of the capital city, Addis Ababa. It supplies roof sheeting in corrugated, mini-corrugated and tile profiles.It also manufactures ridges. Some of the brands that have already been launched in the market are: Versatile, Romantile, Trimflute, Covermax, EGA 300, EGA 500 & 11/3 Corrugated roofing sheets in painted and unpainted, flashings and gutters, bullnosed sheets, and steel door profiles. El Fateh, is a family-owned industrial group working in a wide range of heavy and light steel constructions, plate works, cladding systems, commercial vehicles, and machining works in Egypt, and with a strong presence in the African and the European markets. The company provides highly qualified steel structures, special fabrications and plate works (design and fabrication according to international codes) under consideration of all export quality requests (ISO and EN1090 certified) for a wide variety of infrastructural and industrial applications. This includes deliveries for the construction industry, the cement industry, the oil and gas/petrochemical industry, power plants including renewable energy, infrastructure, and airports/stadiums including other architectural steel-glass constructions.  SKEW is an innovative company that offers customised products for optimising the assembly of reinforcement. their most innovative product is the Jiggelo reinforcement assembly system, which can be used as a workstation for the assembly of all kinds of elements in all shapes and sizes. SKEW aligns its design completely to your specific requirements. To achieve that, their technical experts, who have more than 10 years’ experience in designing assembly stations for companies all around the world, will be analysing your technical drawings and are working closely together with the customer.