Algeria’s National Hydrocarbons Company Sonatrach has announced the completion of the Bir Rebaa North- Menzel Ledjmet East gas pipeline project in the Berkine Basin in the south-east 320km from Hassi Messaoud (wilaya of Ouargla). Carried out in “fast-track” mode (accelerated procedure), the gas pipeline, 185km long, 16 inches in diameter, connecting the oil fields of Bir Rebaa North to the facilities of Menzel Ledjmet East (W. Ouargla) has a transport capacity of 7 million standard cubic meters of gas per day. The project which was done in partnership with ENI, will allow the export of the associated gas and the development of the gas fields of the “North Berkine” blocks, where the drilling and connections of the first four wells have been completed, after only one year of the entry into force. Consequently, the Berkine Nord gas project will now be able to produce a daily production of 6.5 million cubic meters of gas and 10 thousand barrels of associated liquids. Moreover, the total production will reach 65 thousand barrels of oil equivalent (boe) per day during the year 2020. Also Read: 120-km natural gas pipeline to be constructed in Morocco Sonatrach is the national state-owned oil company of Algeria. Founded in 1963, it is known today to be the largest company in Africa with 154 subsidiaries. For more than 50 years, the company has been playing its full role in driving the national economy. Its mission is to enhance the large hydrocarbon reserves of Algeria. This major player in the petroleum industry, nicknamed the African major, draws its strength from its ability to be a fully integrated group throughout the hydrocarbon value chain. In the Upstream, Sonatrach operates, in its own effort or in partnership with foreign oil companies, deposits among the most important in the world in different regions of the Algerian Sahara: Hassi Messaoud, Hassi R’Mel, Hassi Berkine, Ourhoud, Tin Fouyé Tabankort, Rhourde Nouss, In Salah and In Amenas. In terms of transport, the Group has an extremely dense network of pipes which today covers nearly 22,000 kilometers across France. The Company has also set up three petroleum loading ports for hydrocarbons: Algiers, Arzew, Bejaia and Skikda in order to allow the loading and unloading of large tankers with a capacity of 80,000 to 320,000 MT and LNG carriers.