“Our customers in the commercial, mining and industrial sectors operate in harsh environments where they rely on superior-quality products to assist them in getting the job done reliably, cost-effectively and safely; our new AMPCO metal isolator switches fit the bill,” states Donovan Marks, Director of Powermite. “When operating in such arduous applications safety needs to remain top priority. Therefore, we have specifically designed and developed our AMPCO metal isolator switches to be safety-centric to the ultimate benefit of operators and companies,” explains Marks. Available from 63 – 630 Amps and in 3 or 4 poles, the IP65 (dust & water tight) rated AMPCO metal enclosed isolator switch range is ideally suited for disconnecting or isolating motor circuits. These compact and robust metal isolator switches feature an orange powder coated, rigid housing and cadmium plated screws. The housing which is manufactured from sand cast aluminium, features top and bottom entry points and provides ample space for wiring. In addition, the metal AMPCO isolator switches feature padlocking facilities which safely isolate the unit in the OFF position. Adhering to world-class quality and international standards are intrinsic to Powermite’s DNA. The AMPCO metal product range upholds these values by complying with National Standards SANS/IEC 60309 P1 + 2. Furthermore, all Powermite plugs and sockets undergo stringent inspections during production processes and are manufactured in accordance with its ISO 9001 Quality Management Certification. Alongside the isolator switches, the comprehensive AMPCO new aluminium manufactured metal range consists of CEE type metal plug and socket outlets, DIN and Swedish plugs and sockets, explosion proof plugs and sockets. “These new metal innovations further expand our existing plastic and metal AMPCO range and place Powermite in the ideal position to deliver a wide host of solutions from under one roof,” concludes Marks. Building on over 30 years of experience in manufacturing and supplying industrial plugs and sockets to customers across Sub-Sahara Africa, Powermite’s extensive product portfolio comprises cable reeling systems, specialised reeling cables, festoon systems as well as flexible mining cables. The Johannesburg head office delivers exceptional products and services to customers country-wide as well in the DRC, UK, Malaysia and Singapore through its vast branch network spread across South Africa, Botswana, Zambia, Mozambique and Namibia.