Nigeria’s economy is particularly robust. The West African state continues to enjoy healthy growth to the tune of 5-6% annually, and this looks set to continue in the near future. Nigeria is also Africa’s largest economy by some margin – its GDP hit US $569bn billion in 2014 and this can be attributed to the much developments taking place in the country. With significant investment, the construction industry continues to boom. Here are of the top ongoing mega projects in Nigeria to watch in the near future. 1,400-kilometres long and at the cost of US $11bn, the Lagos-Calabar railway is one of Africa’s most ambitious projects. The rail project will link Lagos in the west to Calabar in the east, while also connecting the cities of Port Harcourt, Uyo, and Aba along the way. Once completed, this transportation network will significantly enhance the movement of goods and services across the region. Finally, Nigeria has its own smart city, mega project (and one that I’m personally involved with) called Eko Atlantic. This new coastal city is being built on Victoria Island adjacent to Lagos, Nigeria. It is a focal point for investors capitalizing on rich development growth based on massive demand – and it’s a gateway to emerging markets of the continent. The proposed Eko Atlantic is expected to accommodate at least 250,000 residents of the city on the project completion. The Eko Atlantic project extending over 9 square kilometres and is also expected to have positive effects in restoring and protecting the state shoreline. At 7km and 40 metres wide, the islands’ walkway will be the longest in the world Lagos Light Rail is a light rail system, the first of its type in this region of Africa, is envisaged to eventually consist of seven lines (Red, Blue, Green, Yellow, Purple, Brown and Orange). The scheme is approximately 35-kilometre in length with an estimated ridership of a minimum of 500,000 passengers per day. The following fourteen (14) station locations are proposed. The Blue Line is now being built by China Civil Engineering Construction Corporation (CCECC) and will run 27.5 km from Marina to Okokomaiko, with 13 stations. Lagos State is financing construction of the Blue Line from its own resources. The World Trade Centre project is a partnership between the FCT Administration and the First Continental Properties Limited, a subsidiary of Church-gate Investment Limited. This will be the first such centre in West Africa, joining 323 other locations in 89 countries worldwide in the WTC network. The construction site sits on 6,102 hectares of land along the Constitution Avenue in the Central Business Area that is located at the centre of the city of Abuja. It will be a multi-use complex that will comprise of luxury high rise office towers, luxury residence apartments, conference facilities, shopping malls and entertainment facilities. The first stage required to be building of two 24 storey towers, one commercial and one residential, which will be joined by future structures such as a 37 storey hotel and a shopping mall. Lekki Free Trade Zone (Lekki FTZ) covers a total area of about 30 square kilometres with 27 square kilometres for urban construction purposes, which would hold a total of 120,000 residents. Approximately 50 kilometres from the city centre of Lagos, the economic capital of Nigeria, Lekki FTZ borders Lekki Lagoon in the north and faces the Atlantic in the south. Lekki FTZ designed to integrate industries, commerce & business, real estate development, warehousing & logistics, tourism & entertainment etc. A considerable number of construction works will be carried out in the Commercial & Logistics Park, including the international commodities & trade centre, the international exhibition & conversation centre, industrial factories, office buildings, hotels and residential apartment buildings. The Commercial & Logistics Park on the long runs is expected to serve as the logistics and distribution centre of Chinese products in West Africa and represent a service demonstration base for the entire Lekki FTZ. Abuja Gateway Airport The Abuja Gateway Airport has been designed to be a stunning solar powered gateway that will have the shape of the traditional Nigerian bow harp; the design connects the new Abuja Airport to the central area on the opposite side of the free-way and comes complete with green roofs, giant solar canopy and bricks made from local laterite clay. Ehrlich Architect’s design symbolizes the weaving together of the country’s many different people. The sweeping gateway brings together the city of Abuja’s modern atmosphere with the cultural heritage of Nigeria as a whole. The plan features an amphitheatre and public space with a photovoltaic canopy to provide power and shade visitors from the sun. A green roof covers nearby buildings making them melt into the surrounding greenery. As Nigeria looks to boost its energy production to match the needs of its booming economy and population, the government has finally invested into making the Mambilla Hydroelectric Power Project a reality. The US $5.8bn project will connect to three dams across the Donga River in Taraba State, eventually generating a total installed capacity of 3,050MW of electricity