Danfoss meets many of the world’s climate, urbanization, and food challenges, with proven and reliable solutions – and they’re just getting started. Driven by the power of an electrified society, and fuelled by the opportunities of going digital, Danfoss is dedicated to engineering solutions that can unleash the potential of tomorrow. Energy efficient technologies empower smart communities and industries to create healthier and more comfortable climates in our buildings and homes; and enable the supply more food with less waste. As a forward-thinking company with frontline passion, Danfoss’ aim is to achieve carbon neutrality by 2029 globally & in Copenhagen, their global head office, by 2025. By then, Copenhagen will most likely be the first carbon neutral capital in the world. In the Southern Region of Denmark, energy efficiency has improved by over 40% in ten years – mainly through energy retrofit, green transportation, and the use of heat pumps in rural areas. Energy efficiency is the largest contributor to emission reductions. Most cities and communities waste a lot of energy for heating and cooling because we have not focussed on the control of energy use. Not only does energy efficiency have a direct impact on global warming and the environment, but it has a direct impact on business revenue. A great example of energy efficiency optimization is the case study of a city who disappeared from all aerial satellite photographs due to smog and black skies, a product of emissions from the local steel capital of China, a city called Benxi’ coal consumption. Surrounded by mountains, trapping polluted air and turning snowflakes black, the air pollution had a significant effect on the health of the city’s habitants. Danfoss directed surplus heat emissions produced by the steel company towards transforming the city’s urban heat infrastructure, providing a healthier alternative to conventional coal-fired heating. Africa is the most important market for their products, with their regional office located in Johannesburg and a partner distribution and direct channel reaching the entire continent, with the Arab African countries managed by their Dubai regional office. Danfoss’ products can be found throughout all African countries, barring sanctioned countries, with their most important vericals being Mining, HVAC, Water & Waste Water, Food & Beverage factories, Cold Chain (Industrial & Commercial Refrigeration), to name a few. The company has distributors in Algeria, Botswana, Egypt, Ethiopia, Ghana, Kenya, Botswana, Morocco, Namibia, Nigeria, Tanzania, Tunisia, Zambia, Zimbabwe, etc. Across the world, their sustainable smart technologies power industries and cities, secure a reliable food supply, and create healthier, more comfortable indoor climates. They drive the uptake of renewables for tomorrow’s smart energy systems, where shipping and on- and off-highway machinery are powered by hybrid and electric motors. The transport sector is responsible for 65% of oil demand and generates nearly a quarter of global C02 emissions. Economic growth and prosperity will only increase demand for mobility. Our customers need solutions they can trust, which is why we ensure our products set the standard for efficiency, connectivity, and durability. The firm values their reputation for developing a deep understanding of their customers’ operations – helping them to realize the full potential of their businesses. It’s not just about meeting customer’s needs, it’s also about anticipating them. And because industry leading innovation is at company’s core, they can help businesses stay ahead of the curve. Commercial buildings need to maintain a precise balance between dynamic growth and sustainable management. Whether it is hotel, offices, supermarkets or other public spaces, building technology must adapt to market needs, regulations, and certificates. There are also users and investors to consider. You can save considerable energy, reduce emissions, and lower costs with Danfoss products and solutions for heating and cooling systems, building management systems (BMS), and elevator or escalator transport. You can get help to meet your design and manufacturing objectives by drawing upon them for expert advice, either for specific applications or holistic solutions for your building project. Improvements in technology and engineering put new levels of comfort right at your fingertips through intelligent controls and connected products. Danfoss continually develops new solutions that ensure pleasant indoor comfort, environmental sustainability, high energy efficiency, and reduced heating costs, as well as easy installation, servicing, and maintenance. Whether you are building or renovating a new single or multi-family home, there are multiple application options available for smart heating and room temperature control, domestic hot water supply, underfloor heating, energy metering, elevator transport and frost and snow protection.