The new shower-toilet generation by Duravit and Philippe Starck is available in two versions: SensoWash® Starck f Plus and SensoWash® Starck f Lite. Convenient to operate via a remote control, freely configurable via an app, they both include a minimalist design for maximum shower-toilet comfort. The technology within all components has undergone further development and has been reorganized to now house all technology within the ceramic body. The flat seat with a height of just 40 mm and the white cover located behind it form a flush-mounted unit: contemporary design and comfort-enhancing technology in perfect harmony. The innovative remote control with its flat, elegant design feels pleasant in the hand and all functions are controlled intuitively. Comfort is guaranteed thanks to technical finishing touches such as the motion sensor for automatic cover opening through the user ID in the seat up to a wide range of setting options for seat heating, for the shower flow, and the controllable hot air dryer. The associated SensoWash® app enables individual configuration of the shower-toilet, or it can be optionally controlled in the standard way with a remote control. The flush function and odor extraction system may also be controlled via remote control or app if the wall-mounted element, itself perfectly harmonized for SensoWash® Starck f by Duravit, is combined with the A2 electronic actuator plate.  Thanks to the new Rimless® technology and an optimized basin and siphon geometry, SensoWash® Starck f provides improved water flow for perfect flushing results. HygieneGlaze® 2.0, which kills 99.999% of bacteria in a relatively short time, guarantees an optimum hygiene standard. The flat, heated toilet seat is made of an especially rugged material and, like the cover, is very hygienic thanks to its scratch-resistant, pore-free surface. The design of the new shower-toilet impresses with its pared-down aesthetics and timeless modernity: it is a perfect match for all Duravit design ranges. Developed and manufactured by Duravit and designed by Philippe Starck, the new SensoWash® shower-toilet offers attractive pricing, easy installation, and an integrated, fully automated descaling function.  Founded in 1817 in Hornberg in the Black Forest, Duravit AG is today a leading international manufacturer of designer bathrooms. The company is active in more than 130 countries worldwide and stands for innovation in the fields of signature design, comfort-enhancing technology and premium quality. In cooperation with high-profile international designers, such as Philippe Starck, EOOS, Phoenix Design, sieger design, Kurt Merki Jr., Christian Werner, Matteo Thun and Cecilie Manz, the company develops unique bathrooms that enhance quality of life for users on a sustained basis. Duravit’s product portfolio comprises sanitary ceramics, bathroom furniture, bathtubs and shower trays, wellness systems, shower-toilets, tap fittings and accessories as well as installation systems.