Construction works on the Tema-Ouagadougou port project in Burkina Faso is set to commence next year 2021. Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of LMI Holdings, the project developers, Mr Kojo Aduhene disclosed the report. The inland port project will be established at Mpakadan in the Eastern Region and Debre in the Savannah Region with a 400km freight barge route connecting them in addition to a logistics and industrial park at Dabre. It will involve the construction of two container ports along the lake’s inland waterway to link the two cities. Also Read:Mauritius to construct fishing port and breakwater structures at Fort William Currently, Mr Kojo said the company was engaging with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) regarding environmental impact assessment and permit as well as the Ghana Ports and Harbours Authority (GPHA) and Volta River Authority (VRA) concerning a concession agreement. The project is projected to cost US $200m hich would be borne by local and international investors. Giving a breakdown of the estimated cost, Mr Aduhene said marine assets would cost US $40m; port infrastructure, US $60m while bulk fuel infrastructure and access infrastructure, would cost US $50m each. Upon completion it will transport cargo and fuel from Tema port to Ouagadougou. Aside from creating competitive freight transportation, Mr Kojo Aduhene said the project would boost industrialization of the northern sector of the country, enhance cross-border trade and regional integration, reduce cost in annual road repairs by the government due to damage caused by heavy vehicles that transport cargo as well as decrease traffic congestion and air pollution in urban centres. “The project will position the Port of Tema as the leading transit hub in West Africa and enhance revenue mobilization for Ghana and Burkina Faso. It will also create thousands of direct and indirect jobs for the residents of communities around the project sites including service providers and manufacturers of inputs as well as individuals with specialized skills across the country,” said Mr Aduhene.  