Eastern Africa countries have increased investment in infrastructure projects in the past five years with Tanzania leading in terms of the value and number of projects that broke ground by June last year. The Government is implementing the National Five-Year Development Plan 2016/17 – 2020/2021, which aims at nurturing industrialization for economic transformation and human development. The following are the top ongoing mega projects in Tanzania Through a collaboration between Tanzania, China and Oman, the ambitious Bagamoyo port is now being developed in Tanzania, along with 190 industries built throughout a 1,700-hectare special economic zone adjacent to the port. At a cost of US $11bn, this mega infrastructure project is designed to become Africa’s largest port.The port should be able to handle 20 million containers annually once it’s fully completed by 2045. The project will position Tanzania  into a regional economic powerhouse. Tanzania will become the third country in East Africa to start enjoying modern railway services after Kenya and Ethiopia. Kenya was the first country in the region to start the construction of an SGR line, completing over 500km between Mombasa and Nairobi, and also inaugurating its passenger services in June 2017. The LNG project worth US $30bn has become the most valuable project in the region. Once completed, the LNG plant, is expected to contribute about 7% towards the country’s economic growth. New international airport in Dodoma The project is part of programme to expand the East African nation’s infrastructure. It will be built in Msalato, 12 km from Dodoma. It will include a passenger terminal, runway and related infrastructure. The new airport project which will take approximately four years for construction, will have  a capacity to handle 1 million passengers annually and will have a runway of just over 2km in length. Project funding The funding package comprises a US $198.6m loan from the AfDB, US $23.52m from the African Development Fund, and US $50m in co-financing from China’s Africa Growing Together Fund, which the AfDB manages.