Hudson Yards Edge has officially been opened for the public. The Sky-high observation deck featuring a glass window in the ground that allows brave thrill-seeking visitors to stare 100 stories below, is the tallest one of its kind in the western hemisphere; standing at 1,100 feet in the air. The observation deck which juts out from the glassy commercial skyscraper at 30 Hudson Yards, costs US $36m to visit. The Hudson Yards is a real estate development in the Chelsea and Hudson Yards neighborhoods of Manhattan, New York City. The project has been described as New York’s largest urban development since Rockefeller Center. It sits on a 28-acre site and is expected to create a new neighborhood of residential and office skyscrapers, schools, hospitals, retail spaces, parks, cultural venues, and public art. Upon completion, 13 of the 16 planned structures on the West Side of Midtown South would sit on a platform built over the West Side Yard, a storage yard for Long Island Rail Road trains. The first of its two phases, opened in 2019, comprises a public green space and eight structures that contain residences, a hotel, office buildings, a mall, and a cultural facility. Also Read:US $20bn Hudson Yards, largest urban development in New York There is a 6-acre (2ha) public square, with 28,000 plants and 225 trees, on the platform. The public square is a ventilation area for the West Side Yards, as well as a storm water runoff site. Storm water that runs off into the square is reused. Because it is located on top of an active rail yard, the public square is located over a 6-foot (1.8m) deep plenum above a cooling slab with 15 fans blowing 45 miles per hour (72km/h) air and a 60,000-US-gallon (230,000 l; 50,000 imp gal) rainwater storage tank. The entire platform is supported by 234 caissons. The plantings are rooted within “smart soil”. The plaza opened along with the mall on March 15, 2019. Vessel, a permanent art installation designed by Thomas Heatherwick, is located at the center of the plaza. The installation, a 16-story freestanding structure of connected staircases, cost US $150m. Heatherwick took inspiration from Indian step wells in the design. Stephen M. Ross has compared the structure to the Eiffel Tower, and it has also been informally dubbed “The Shawarma”. Vessel opened on March 15, 2019. The second phase, on which construction has not started yet, will include residential space, an office building, and a school.