A scrapyard operator has increased its productivity significantly by acquiring a SANY SY215 excavator with a six-finger grab attachment, as opposed to the traditional bucket. The excavator was supplied by Goscor Earth Moving (GEM) with the grab already fitted, reports Sales Consultant Murray Leith. “This is the first time that we have sold a grab attachment with a SANY excavator to a local customer, and therefore this represents an important reference project for us,” Leith highlights. “The scrap industry is a major opportunity for SANY, and the success of the project will prove the viability of this attachment in particular.” The grabs are sourced from a separate company, and installed by a hydraulic specialist. The client is also involved in various construction projects, and therefore is able to switch between the grab and bucket on the SY215. Such a changeover is relatively quick, and can be carried out by the customer itself, thereby improving the turnaround time. Prior to acquiring the excavator fitted with the grab, the customer was using a forklift for scrap-handling purposes. This meant increased handling of the scrap, and therefore reduced productivity. “The client has been duly impressed by the flexibility of the excavator, which is playing a major role in allowing it to boost its output for both its scrapyard and construction operations,” Leith highlights.  The SY215 is a 22 t excavator featuring a customised six-cylinder, four-stroke, direct-injection turbocharged Mitsubishi engine with 5.86 litre displacement. Strengthened components allow for added durability, high operating efficiency, low fuel consumption, and reduced maintenance. An innovative controller with improved accuracy reduces the response time of the hydraulic components, and also boosts the operating output power. SANY offers a range of attachments to increase the flexibility of its excavator range. These include hydraulic cutters for dismantling applications, rippers for breaking hard soil, stones and rocks in mining applications, and hydraulic breakers for concrete breaking and highway repair, for example. Industrial equipment group Goscor is a Bud Group company. Goscor represents leading equipment brands across several sectors. These include Crown, Doosan, Bendi, Hubtex and Taylor Dunn (forklifts and materials handling equipment); Bobcat (compact & construction); SANY (earthmoving); Tennant, Elgin, Maer, Delfin, Kaivac and HighPoint (industrial cleaning equipment); HPower, Weima, Meiwa and Rato (industrial power solutions); Genie (aerial lift equipment); Sullair and Ozen (compressed air solutions), and many more.