In the lighting market for more than 25 years now, and with footprints in over 50 countries across the globe, ACB ILUMINACION S.L. is a lighting products manufacturing and distributing company based in Valencia-Spain. At its headquarters in Ribarroja del Turia, the company has more than 5,000 m2 of space on which its production and logistics centers, quality laboratory, R & D, design, administration, and marketing departments are located. It also has a showroom to serve its customers where it’s most representative products for lighting, connected mirrors and fans are exposed. ACB ILUMINACION S.L. products catalog reflects a wide range of trends including wall lights, ceiling lights, fluorescence, table lamps, pendants, floor lamps, spots and chandeliers among many others.  Its more than 1,500 different product varieties are applicable in; The company also makes custom product design to provide solutions to the most varied needs and tastes. ACB ILUMINACION S.L. continuously creates new technical and aesthetic lighting solutions. The development of its special projects division (CONTRACT) made world-renowned architectural firms, major decorating studios, as well as hotel chains other and other collectivities, trust the company with their projects. Some of the projects undertaken by ACB ILUMINACION S.L. include;  ACB ILUMINACION S.L. designed a set of pendant lamps with vertical rectangular shade and rounded corners, per the decoration. 2. La Palma Hotel in Llanes In this Asturian hotel  ACB ILUMINACION S.L. selected a range of wall lamps and customized shades for the guest rooms. In the corridors and common rooms, it opted for pendant lamps with metal finished shades of different diameters. Other projects are; the Opera Hotel in Cairo, Egypt; Hotel Chantilly in Paris, France; Raffles Hotel in Makkah, KSA; Richmond Hotel & Convention Centre in the UK; Euforia Tapas Restaurante in Palma de Mallorca, Spain; Beach Villas in Pearl, Qatar UAE, Resort Hotel & Casino Atol in Prague, Slovaquie; Hotel Contel in Mainz, Germany; Residence “in” in Sri Lanka among many others. 