The construction of the Chuka modern stadium in Tharaka-Nithi County, Kenya, is back on course according to the County Commissioner (CC) Ms. Beverly Opwora. This is after the County Development Implementation Coordination Committee (CDICC) stopped the demonstrations staged by about thirty casual workers over delayed payment. The workers who claimed to have been sucked claimed that the project contractor, Toddy Civil Engineering and Construction Company owed them more than Sh120, 000 in total. Efforts by the contractor’s site manager Boniface Shiveka to assure the demonstrating workers that their dues would be paid were not going well with them until the CDICC intervened. Ms. Opwora said that the contractor explained to the committee the reasons for the delayed payments and undertaken to pay the workers the soonest possible, an activity that will be ensured by the CDICC. Also Read: Kenya begins construction of Wang’uru Stadium in Kirinyaga County “The government is committed to the completion of the modern stadium and the CDICC has intervened to ensure the workers are paid and the construction continues,” said the Tharaka-Nithi County commissioner. The responsibility of the CDICC is to find out the challenges facing ongoing national government projects and seek timely interventions to ensure they are completed within the stipulated time. Addressing reporters at the Chuka Stadium shortly after the CDICC visit, the CC said that there is progress after the previous meeting with ground irrigation, electrical installations in the ablution block, and the pavilion besides fittings on the roof and very soon, the gate would also be fitted. She disclosed that the committee was concerned with the slow pace in the construction of the stadium but was encouraged in that the contractor was on the ground with all the technocrats including engineers in the civil works, mechanical works, and even electrical works and looks forward to its completion by the extended deadline on 30th September 2020.