Global design and BIM software provider, Vectorworks, Inc. invites all users and press to its global Vectorworks Design Day on Tuesday, October 6, 2020. This virtual event is geared toward designers in the architectural, interior architecture, landscape and entertainment industries and will educate customers on the new Vectorworks 2021 features, while providing access to a variety of live and on-demand presentations and discussions. This year, attendees can expect a welcome presentation from Vectorworks CEO Dr. Biplab Sarkar, where he will share the direction of development and deliver a keynote that covers product strategies centered around the theme of this year’s release “Simplicity to Design the Complex.” “The global COVID-19 pandemic has altered the lives of many, which is why we are taking this opportunity to bring Vectorworks Design Day to our users in a virtual format, so more people can learn about the new features and tool improvements in Vectorworks 2021,” said Dr. Sarkar. “We look forward to giving a behind-the-scenes look at how our latest release was created to empower designers of all disciplines with simple solutions to design their most complex projects. Our live Q&A will allow us to connect with our customers worldwide and offer a two-way conversation that not only fields their pressing questions but also shares how Vectorworks is adapting to best support our customers given these challenging times.” The event will also include core feature and technology updates from industry experts and exclusive on-demand presentations from global Vectorworks users including: “We’re honored to present at this year’s Vectorworks Design Day,” said Gerner. “As a Vectorworks user for more than 25 years, we will explain how as a firm, we have evolved with the platform and now lead the path to a full integration with utilizing other BIM platforms. I look forward to sharing with attendees how Vectorworks allows us to be on the cutting edge of design and productivity with their flexible and intuitive tools.” Registration is free and the event will last approximately two hours. To best serve those around the world, times are offered at 8 a.m., 1 p.m. and 7 p.m. ET. Visit the registration page to secure your spot and submit questions to be answered during the live Q&A by Dr. Sarkar and the Vectorworks leadership team. About Vectorworks, Inc. Vectorworks, Inc. is an award-winning design and BIM software provider serving the architecture, landscape architecture and entertainment industries in 85 countries. Creating intuitive software since 1985, we’ve become the preeminent software built to manage the entire design process. Globally more than 685,000 users are creating, connecting and influencing the next generation of design with Vectorworks on Mac and Windows. Headquartered in Columbia, Maryland, with offices in Newbury and London, England and Vancouver, Canada, Vectorworks is a part of the Nemetschek Group. 