Hansgrohe has always been at the forefront of creating state-of-the-art, sustainable kitchen and bathroom fittings that conserve our most precious liquid resource. Add to that hansgrohe’s unmistakeable flair for world-class design, and you have the ideal partner for modern green building projects with their own striking aesthetics. So when Barloworld Equipment – respected supplier of Caterpillar earthmoving machinery – undertook to kit out its impressive new head office and Equipment Showroom with sustainably-designed fittings, the earth moved when Paragon Architects came on board and chose hansgrohe sanitary fittings to enhance the building’s design and sustainability features. The team left no stone – or detail – unturned as they took on the mammoth project. Project Architectural Technologist and Project Leader for Paragon, David Cloete, says, “Tackling a project of this magnitude was uniquely exciting for us. Beyond the overall design, we took a long, hard look at the minutiae that all add up to make the building more sustainable. “For example, we have constructed the building as north-facing, to cut down drastically on energy requirements. The roof structure has made provision for solar panels, and low-rated sanitary fittings were installed to ensure minimal water usage. That’s where hansgrohe’s products were the perfect fit. hansgrohe mixers have the perfect energy- and water-efficiency ratings to support our green approach to the project.” Barloworld’s imposing new showroom looks out over the R24 in Isando, Johannesburg. This striking new presence on the Johannesburg skyline features Paragon’s trademark two-tower building approach, with the office plates being linked by an atrium and linking circulation bridge. The building is breaking ground in other ways, too, as it is the first showroom in South Africa that is entirely dedicated to large earthmoving equipment. While the building’s height has been restricted due to its proximity to OR Tambo International Airport, the Paragon team has admirably optimised the space in the one three-storey and the other two-storey section. Gleaning inspiration from classic Caterpillar earthmovers, the bubble-shaped buildings glisten in glass, floating on a podium above the parking level with a glazed-glass bridge linking it all. hansgrohe’s sleek, minimalist EcoSmart mixers not only add to the beautifully modern and minimalist aesthetic, they reduce water consumption and energy costs on a grand scale. hansgrohe taps require just five litres of water per minute. They also decrease hot water consumption and cut down hugely on energy consumption costs. CO2 emissions are also minimised due to lower energy use. hansgrohe is proud to be associated with this iconic new project and hopes to contribute to a more a sustainable approach to building for years to come. hansgrohe – Sustainable by Design! 