Construction has commenced on one of the largest commercial and industrial (“C&I”) rooftop solar projects in Malaysia. The 5MWp project will span an area of over 26,000m2, and is located in Penang, Malaysia. Canadian Solar is undertaking the project in collaboration with with Antah Solar Sdn. Bhd. and Eleaps Sdn. Bhd. The 5MWp power purchase agreement was signed with Muda Paper Mills Sdn Bhd (“Muda Paper”), a subsidiary of Muda Holdings Berhad, listed on the Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad since November 1984 (KLSE: 3883). Muda Paper is the largest industrial-grade paper producer in Malaysia. The project will be powered by 13,000 pieces of Canadian Solar’s high-efficiency KuMax modules. Once in operation, the plant is expected to generate approximately 6,700 MWh of clean, reliable solar electricity each year for 25 years. The Company expects the project to reach commercial operation by the end 2020. Also Read: India’s largest building integrated vertical solar PV system According to Dr. Shawn Qu, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Canadian Solar, this transaction marks the company’s first corporate solar PPA in Southeast Asia. “We have secured close to 170MWp of corporate PPAs across Southeast Asia and Australia since the beginning of 2020, partnering our C&I clients to reduce carbon emissions while cutting operational costs. With our proven track record and established C&I pipeline, we expect to partner with more corporates to capture the growing potential of the global C&I solar market and help our customers to achieve their sustainability goals. We appreciate DEG’s funding to support Canadian Solar’s expansion across this region,” he said. DEG, or Deutsche Investitions- und Entwicklungsgesellschaft, a subsidiary of Germany’s development bank KfW Group and one of the world’s largest private sector development financiers, will provide the Company with a US $20m long-term loan facility. This loan matures in 2024 and will be deployed across Canadian Solar’s solar pipeline, including the Muda Paper C&I solar rooftop project, demonstrating the Company’s commitment to promote social and environmental goals in its project development activities.