A new petroleum products terminal construction in Alexandria, Egypt is on the way. This is after Total Egypt and OLA Energy signed a joint venture agreement to jointly own, build, and operate the facility dubbed the Alexandria Petroleum Products Terminal (APPT). Including four gasoline, two gas-oil tanks, and a truck-loading gantry in its first phase of construction, the APPT will be built at the Mex Petroleum Zone on a 23,000 square meter plot of land. It will have an initial storage capacity of 10,000 cubic meters upon its completion by the last quarter of 2022.  The facility has been carefully planned to allow for maximum flexibility to meet potential changes in market conditions. Also Read: EPC contract for construction of a hydrocracking complex in Upper Egypt The facility’s key purpose is to serve as the main supply point to both Total and OLA Energy Egypts’ customers and service stations in Alexandria, as well as in the North Coast and North Delta regions. Located in close proximity to the main refineries in Alexandria and the petroleum products jetty, the terminal will also have close access to the National Petroleum Pipeline Grid. “The terminal will enable Total Egypt to secure its growth plans across all strategic locations, reflecting the company’s vision to fulfill its customers’ needs and to deliver the best quality services,” said Peyami Oven, the Managing Director of Total Egypt. He also said that this project is a new milestone of the company’s ambition to grow and its commitment to develop the petroleum supply chain and increase its market share.” Ahmed Elgembri, the General Manager of OLA Energy Egypt on the other hand said that the project is a strategic investment that secures a reliable supply hub for OLA Energy, enabling it to serve the company’s network of retail stations across Alexandria, the North Coast, and the North Delta. “The project reflects the OLA Energy Group’s guiding vision to be one of the major downstream marketers in Egypt, and the entire African region” explained Elgembri.