The most common HVAC maintenance issues need to be treated early in order to avoid bigger problems later on. Some of these could develop into much more serious problems if not remediated in time. Most of these issues can be managed with regular maintenance. These issues can be resolved by arranging them in the form of a checklist and looking for their presence whenever scheduled preventive maintenance is carried out. Alternative industrial hvac solutions can keep your HVAC systems running smoothly and problem-free. Here are the 9 most common HVAC issues which may show up during maintenance.   Replacing dirty filters is necessary for more than one reason. Clogged filters have a direct negative impact because your system has to work much harder to allow air to circulate. There will be excessive strain on the blower which can reduce its lifespan significantly. There may also be overheating issues in the furnace causing it to shut off at the wrong time.   Malfunctioning thermostats are also another common commercial HVAC issue. Thermostats come in two main types – programmable and non-programmable. Most often, when there is a problem with the HVAC system not working properly it is usually due to the thermostat. The thermostat may have malfunctioned. It is also possible that users are not setting it up correctly. Therefore , you should always refer to the manufacturer’s manual to understand all aspects of your thermostat and use it correctly. Study all the operating instructions and explain them all to others who will be using the HVAC system. Another common issue with programmable thermostats is that their batteries have drained which is why they are not working properly. Hence, you must check for these issues before calling in a commercial HVAC repair service.   Ignition issues could arise from various factors. Dirty burners, flame sensors or pilot may lead to delayed ignition, furnace lockout, short cycling and pilot outage. These problems may also be the result of a gas supply issue. Wear and tear can also occur in ignition components. Hence, various components such as the thermocouple and hot surface ignitor need to be checked and then replaced if they are not working properly. Since these components are critical and pose safety issues, they should be checked by professionals. Qualified and trained personnel are well-poised to inspect critical safety issues concerning high voltages and highly flammable natural gas.   Not scheduling proper maintenance is one of the most common and biggest commercial HVAC issues. In fact, it is the main reason why HVAC systems fail well before their service life is over. If there is no regular HVAC maintenance schedule in place then the HVAC system may have to be replaced much sooner. Even lighter issues can turn into major problems later on which can be expensive to repair. If you want your HVAC system to function seamlessly then it is imperative to call in regular inspections through qualified, experienced and licensed contractors. Commercial HVAC systems cost a lot of money to install. To protect your investment, you will need to rely on regular maintenance. It does not pay to take chances and skip maintenance. Scheduled preventive maintenance can save you a lot of money in the long term. It will also save you plenty of headaches. Commercial HVAC maintenance can save you from frustrating and costly problems like erratic performance, malfunctions and breakdowns. Avoiding these problems is essential for keeping your commercial facility in running order and preventing unexpected disruptions to processes and daily activities.   Certain types of furnace noises may be normal. However, other kinds of noises indicate that something is amiss. These are warning signs of a problem waiting to happen. For instance, a squealing or whining sound from the motor is a sign that the bearings in the blower motor or inducer motor are in bad condition. You will need to pay attention to this problem to prevent a larger problem with the HVAC system that may be even costlier. Other sorts of noises may be the result of dirty burners or airflow problems. It is always best to address and remediate these issues as quickly as possible to prevent the damage from increasing into bigger problems that can possibly lead to a breakdown.   One of the most important reasons for tripped breakers and blown fuses is that key components are under excessive load. For example if there is an airway obstruction, the blower motor will have to work much harder to force air through the obstruction. Dirty filters are frequently responsible for high loads on blower motors. Clogged filters impede the flow of air. The motor has to work harder to compensate. This is possible by drawing in a higher current and consuming more electrical energy. But doing so may burn out the motor since such energy and current levels may be well above the normal levels at which the motor is designed to operate. Hence, it is wise to first check the air filters before fixing the blown fuse or tripped breaker. In some cases it is the circuit breaker itself that is malfunctioning. A qualified and experienced professional can pinpoint the root cause of the problem.   Both furnaces and air conditioners produce condensate. Hence proper drainage is necessary through drain pipes. But if these drain pipes are cracked or choked, then water may start leaking.   A fan relay activates the blower when the system is switched on for heat. If the relay gets stuck then the blower cannot shut off. If the safety system has malfunctioned then the blower will not switch off.   Condenser and evaporator coils should be clean and free of debris for efficient heat exchange. If these coils are coated with dirt then the system will have to work extra hard for the same level of performance. This will put strain on the system and lead to a breakdown. Hence, you need a reliable HVAC maintenance service as well as HVAC training solutions to keep your HVAC system in good running order.