Global design and BIM software provider Vectorworks, Inc. has launched Vectorworks 2021 with a continued emphasis on improving product quality, performance and the user experience. This latest release includes Vectorworks Architect, Landmark, Spotlight, Designer and Fundamentals, as well as 2021 versions of Vision, Braceworks and ConnectCAD. “Vectorworks 2021 is the continuation of our commitment to quality and performance and is something that will further drive our mission to provide best-in-class design and BIM tools to AEC, landscape and entertainment professionals,” said Vectorworks CEO Dr. Biplab Sarkar. “When you drill down to this year’s launch theme of ‘simplicity to design the complex,’ you can see how we’ve re-engineered our most frequently used tools to keep the feature set reliable and cutting edge.” In addition to quality-and performance-focused features like the new Project Sharing server and multithreaded Vectorworks Graphics Module (VGM) Cache that offers up to five times faster file loading, Vectorworks 2021 boasts interoperability capabilities with Excel Import/Export and PDF Drawing Marker Links. The Smart Options Display also allows users to stay in the modeling space without needing to constantly move their mouse between drawing area and tool palettes, plus it’s customizable to easily access the most-used tool sets, last-used tools and more. Specifically, architecture and landscape professionals will enjoy the new Materials feature that can define the graphical attributes and data of building materials all in one location for a better BIM workflow. Entertainment professionals will streamline their rigging layout process with the help of improvements to the hoist tools. Vectorworks 2021 is already garnering praise: “The Smart Options Display is an innovative leap forward in Vectorworks’ user interface. I know that after a short period of time using it, everyone in the office will wonder how we ever did without it.” –François Lévy, AIA, NCARB, Principal at François Lévy Architecture + Interiors “The new structural grid tool is a huge leap forward in coordinated drawings. There is a sense of magic about the tool.” –Ion Webster, Principal of Pults & Associates, LLP “I absolutely love the live interactive ability to focus multiple fixtures at once. The lighting device improvements in Vectorworks 2021 are the kinds of features that many of us are used to having on a lighting console, so it makes sense that we would have this in Vectorworks.” –Scott Barnes, Lighting Console Programmer and Owner of i-light design “My jaw dropped to the floor when I realized that the full component section for Landscape Area soil components now interacts with Site Models when used as a texture bed modifier. This is a game changer because it allows us to better understand the effects of a full section on our cut/fill grading and site modeling workflows.” –Eric Berg, Senior Associate at Pacific Coast Land Design “I see Excel Import/Export becoming an important part of practice for pretty much any Vectorworks user to use data from their drawings to prepare takeoffs, cost estimates, schedules, etc.” –Stephen Schrader, PLA, ASLA, GRP, Landscape Architect at Renta Urban Land Design About Vectorworks, Inc. Vectorworks, Inc. is an award-winning design and BIM software provider serving the architecture, landscape architecture and entertainment industries in 85 countries. Creating intuitive software since 1985, we’ve become the preeminent software built to manage the entire design process. Globally more than 685,000 users are creating, connecting and influencing the next generation of design with Vectorworks on Mac and Windows. Headquartered in Columbia, Maryland, with offices in Newbury and London, England and Vancouver, Canada, Vectorworks is a part of the Nemetschek Group.  