The Lagos State Government in Nigeria has closed a section of Oba Ogunji Road, precisely between Iju and Ijaiye Road, for a period of three weeks so as to facilitate the completion of the ongoing construction of the Agege Pen-Cinema Flyover. Access would be limited to only construction vehicles and local residents. Also Read: Gwagwalada Council in Nigeria flags off construction of Anagada road Motorists from Iju or Old Abeokuta Roads are advised to use Iju Road to connect Agege Pen Cinema and link Ijaye Road (Maternity, Stadium, and Marketing) to their destinations. Alternatively, they can make use of Old Abeokuta Road to connect Odejobi Road and link College Road through Oyemekun Road to Yaya Abatan, which will lead them to Ijaiye Road to connect their desired destinations. Also, they can use the diversion to Abule-Egba Road through Old Abeokuta Road to connect Charity and Jonathan Coker Road. The diversion would lead to Iju or Old Abeokuta Roads to connect Agege Motor Road (Isokoko Ashade Railway Crossing) through Akanni Doherty and Oba Akran/Guinness Roundabout axis (Mobil/Ashade) towards Akilo and Ijaye axis. Motorists from Akilo/Wemco/Ijaiye Road towards Oba Ogunji Road are advised to use Ijaiye Road (Marketing, Agege Stadium) all the way to Ijaiye Road intersection (Maternity) to link Agege Pen-Cinema which will connect them to Iju Road or use Ijaiye Road (Excellence Hotel) to Yaya Abatan Road to link Oyemekun/College axis to access Iju Road.” Motorists from Ijaiye (Marketing) to Akilo Road and Guinness Roundabout through Oba Akran and Akanni Doherty Road can connect Agege Motor Road (Isokoko) to access Old Abeokuta Road onward to desired destinations. About the Pen Cinema flyover The Agege Pen-Cinema Flyover is a project started by the administration of ex-Governor Akinwunmi Ambode in December 2017, to crisscross Oba Ogunji Road and Pen Cinema area and over the railroad, terminating at the Agunbiade Street or Oke-Koto area of the Agege community. The bridge also extends to the old Abeokuta highway into Abule Egba. Its total length is approximately 1.4 Kilometres and it is designed to have streetlight facilities and pedestrian walkways.