JB Associates, an independent construction consultancy based all over the UK, have today announced the launch of their all-new “Building Futures” construction mentoring scheme. The research, planning and development of the programme, from the discerning team at JB Associates, has been in the pipeline for some years and whilst it’s well known within the construction sector that enlisting and managing talent has long been a challenge, it continues to be a topical issue. The introduction of an all new mentoring scheme follows JB Associate’s acknowledgment of industry trends and having spent the last few years focussing on their recruitment, monitoring talent and inspiring individuals, they’re now delighted to announce the launch of their high-level mentoring programme – “Building Futures” – to help to actively address these industry concerns head-on. A recent survey conducted for the World Economic Forum found that 77% of those interviewed think the construction sector is not doing enough to attract and retain talent(1), the “Building Futures” programme will put participants through 12 modules over the course of a year and will cover topics such as “Excellence in Project Management”, “Quality Quantity Surveying”, “Understanding Critical Infrastructure” and “Diversity in Building Services”. In addition to building on the skills of the participants, the mentorship will focus on candidates becoming ambassadors for excellence in their field.  JB Associates are aiming to significantly raise the bar in the education of individuals looking to move into this sector and drive them into positions where they will become leading professionals, spokespersons and industry giants of the future. Ashley Buckland, Managing Director at JB Associates, said: “Having been through a structured apprenticeship scheme at the start of my career, it felt only right to initiate a programme that does the same for future generations in the industry. JB Associates is a people first business that depends on delivering high-end projects which is why we’re investing in the future of the construction industry. With over 30+ years combined experience, myself and Julian Butler – Financial Director at JB Associates – will be hosting one-hour monthly calls or meetings with each candidate to train, develop and educate.” “I spent my first weeks within the construction industry as an intern at JB Associates. I was given a mentor that encouraged me to grow, supported me when I required it and offered me 1-1 time to understand the ropes. Within 2 weeks I’d passed my internship and was offered a full-time apprentice role at the construction consultancy. I’m thrilled to be beginning my career with such a renowned firm and with the support of Julian and Ashley I hope to start my Building Services degree in London from September 2020, funded by JB Associates, which will enable me to work and study on the job.” Those interested in becoming candidates for the JB Associates mentoring programme – “Building Futures” – are encouraged to email JBAssociates@thisdogbites.co.uk to find out more. Candidates from all over the UK are encouraged to participate and do not need to be employed by JB Associates.