What does a future-oriented company in the construction machinery industry look like? Which obligations does Probst GmbH have towards customers, employees and society? The Swabian world market leader in the field of gripping and laying technology answers these questions twice: With the battery powered Greenline product family and the certification of Probst GmbH as a climate neutral company. A combination that will certainly set a precedent in the market and on the construction site. With the Greenline product family, the company offers a variety of machines that work emission-free, quietly and electrically. Already last year Probst launched the world’s first fully electric laying machine with innovative battery technology on the market. But innovation is not an end in itself: This machine sets new standards in the market for emission-free working in halls and rooms, such as underground garages, or for silent laying in inner courtyards. Sustainability and the manufacture of construction machinery and tools – does that go together? “A resounding yes,” says Probst Managing Director Eric Wilhelm. The company had the emissions balance determined for its German locations. Behind this is a lot of work for the Probst employees, but it also creates awareness for the topic of climate protection in the departments and production areas. “The result made us reflect on our own behaviour”, says Mr Wilhelm. “We used key figures to evaluate the CO2 consumption caused by each component – from the primary product or raw material used to the transport to our international customers. This CO2 consumption must be continuously reduced and compensated for. To neutralize this climate damage Probst participates in the reforestation of forests in South America. High-quality and durable wood products are planted, which store large amounts of carbon dioxide from the atmosphere. This measure has a global effect, because climate change is global and greenhouse gases are evenly distributed in the atmosphere. Only the sum of greenhouse gases is decisive worldwide, not the place where CO2 emissions are emitted or saved. Climate protection is a central issue for the family-run Alveus Company Group, to which Probst GmbH belongs. ALVEUS attaches great importance to sustainable, resource-conserving management. All group companies have the seal of climate neutrality. The package of measures is only a first step for the Swabian medium-sized company. “In the long term, we at Probst must reduce CO2 consumption. We will only succeed in doing this by the sum of many small measures.”, the Probst managing director is sure. Probst has already prepared or started projects, from measures in the area of purchasing, tool consumption to the offer of bicycle leasing for employees. As world market leader in the field of gripping and laying technology, Probst is at home on construction sites all over the world. At its production sites in Baden-Württemberg and Thuringia, the company manufactures machines and tools for efficient road construction, gardening and landscaping, structural and civil engineering and handling in building material plants. More than 175 employees work for Probst worldwide. In Germany, a network of more than 350 Probst specialized dealers and rental partners supports customers from the construction industry. Abroad, more than 45 specialized dealers are active for Probst in the market, supported by Probst sales companies in France, England, Italy, Poland and the USA.  