All students are snowed under with home assignments occasionally. No matter what you
study, be sure to get plenty of tasks to complete. Unfortunately, architecture students are not an exception. Architecture is divided into many branches, so there are dozens of
specializations as well as home assignments. Some of these tasks are extensive, which makes a student think, “who can write my assignment ASAP?” Even though they require plenty of time, they can be completed quickly. If you want to do architecture assignments fast, read on the guide. When you know the question addressed to you, you are halfway completing the task.
However, you should consider your target audience to make sure your essay, project, or
presentation conveys the main message. Keep in mind that the listeners/readers will be bored to death if they listen to the subject they are not interested in. Thus, the most crucial item of your work is the audience. To accelerate the writing process, think about your audience’s common goal. Identify why
your colleagues are excited about your presentation. Is it because the exam is approaching, and they need the information to absorb? Or, maybe, some of them are looking for novel ideas to implement in their new business projects?
Plus, try to determine what they are interested in beforehand. Architecture is tightly
connected with design, so think about people’s tastes regarding workspace, comfort, usability, etc. When you define these aspects, craft the three most vital things you want the audience to walk away with. Indubitably, you have to portray that you are proficient in the subject. However, it is
impossible to describe the topic entirely. If you dig into this, you will sound tedious. And no
individual wants it. If you need to compose a PowerPoint presentation, make sure to display your information in the form of bullet points. The audience doesn’t need each and every detail of your topic. You can provide your colleagues with more detailed information when presenting the project, but don’t exaggerate. Remember that the audience is alive, and if somebody wants to enrich their knowledge on this subject, they will ask you about a specific concept during your presentation. Or they will jot down sources you used (don’t forget to include them on the last page) and check them individually.
Bear in mind that loads of information make people yawn. Rather than talking on and on,
insert relevant images, which will represent a concept you will explain. Coupled with a madeup story, you will have a better impact on your listeners. Whether you need to compose a presentation or write an essay, remember to keep it
straightforward. There is no need to sit long hours thinking about adding something that will meet the listeners’ expectations. After all, this is college. You won’t get any award for it. A plain and simple text is way more important than a weak informative part and appealing visual piece. And remember that you don’t have much time for that because other assignments are waiting. Every essay needs to be backed up by credible visual, textual, or statistical evidence. Before writing a paper, make sure you identify the question and your audience. When you know that, you can proceed to the next stage, which is finding relevant sources. It goes without saying that we live in a fast-paced environment and many aspects, such as medicine and science, change rapidly. And the same goes for architecture. To remain up-to-date, make sure your proofs are credible and new. Look for sources on Google Scholar, JSTOR, ResearchGate, and other web pages ending with .gov and .edu. Using these websites, you can be sure the retrieved information is reliable. Don’t forget to cite paraphrased information or direct quotes in-text and at the end of the essay. An outline is a layout of your paper that lets the reader skim through it and determine useful information. Usually, an outline is required by professors. However, keep in mind that the outline plays a pivotal role in your writing in the first place. It helps you stay organized and focused only on your notable points. Using this layout, you reduce the chances of writing unnecessary items, confusing the reader afterward. The outline must be concise and accurate and demonstrate every point briefly. There is no single version of the outline; you can compose it of Roman or Latin numerals. Ask the professor which style you should follow. Considering that you are limited in time, the first version of the paper is essential. Having the essay written, you can modify, polish, and improve it in various terms. To complete the paper as soon as possible, make sure to be in a quiet place and have only sources and Google Docs in front of you. To speed up the writing process, consider following a freewriting technique. It stands for allowing you to write everything related to the topic. Using this method, you do not pay any attention to possible mistakes, typos, and similar. Scientists empirically identified that a freewriting method boosts one’s productivity drastically.
When you finished writing the first draft, leave it for a bit. Change your focus, refresh your
mind. Get back to it and check the thesis statement. Remind yourself of the focal points and start reading the entire essay. Grammarly may be quite handy, as it highlights grammatical errors and helps to set the right tone.
When you checked the written piece, ask someone to analyze it as well. A fresh set of eyes
can spot concealed mistakes. Once you polish it to shine, you can submit it, having bags of time for other assignments.
Architecture assignments can be taxing and time-consuming. And everyone wants to deal
with such tasks as soon as possible. The mentioned ways aim to reduce your time spent on
crafting essays or presentations. Remember to make the assignment simple and feel
confident. Combine these tips, and your grades will soar. Good luck!