The Karapınar Solar Energy Plant, constructed on a 20-million-square-meter land in the Central Anatolian province of Konya, Turkey, has begun generating power nearly three years ahead of its expected completion date. Kalyon Holding Energy Group executive Murtaza Ata stated that “we will complete the construction of this facility in 32 months. Solar panels with a capacity of 1,300 megawatts will be established. The works will be completed by May or June 2023. We will generate 2.6 million kilowatt-hours [kWh] of power annually when it’s completed.” So far, 10,200 of the planned 3.5 million solar panels have been installed in the field, according to Ata, who also said that 4 MW of power is being transferred to the national grid after Energy and Natural Resources Ministry officials gave the final approvals last weekend. The amount of power generated will increase gradually as the construction gathers pace with the installation of 104,000 solar panels in a month, he added. The solar panels have a domestic production rate of 75 percent. Also Read: AIIB signs US $60m loan to improve city connectivity in Izmir, Turkey Turkey opened its first integrated solar panel facility in Ankara’s Başkent Organized Industrial Zone in a high-profile ceremony on Aug. 19. The US$400-million Solar Technologies Factory was also built by Turkish energy and construction giant Kalyon Holding. The factory, which will manufacture ingot, wafer, module, and cell units with a capacity of 500 MW per year, will subtract $100 from the country’s yearly solar panel import bill. The US$1 billion Karapınar solar energy plant was constructed by Kalyon Holding in collaboration with China Electronics Technology Group Corporation (CETC). When completed, the facility will increase solar energy’s share in energy generation 25 percent, according to the data from the energy ministry. Turkey’s total electricity production was approximately 27,462 million kWh in July, according to the Energy Market Regulatory Authority (EPDK). In July, Turkey produced its electricity from several sources; 25.2 percent from hydropower, 24.1 percent from natural gas, 21.9 percent from import coal, and 12.4 percent from lignite. Wind, geothermal, biomass, hard coal, asphaltite, solar power, and fuel oil generated the remaining share.