The Nordic countries’ only motor grader manufacturer Veekmas Ltd has designed a new motor grader models Veekmas FG 244 and 246 as well as renewed its smallest UG motor graders models Veekmas FG 5 C and Veekmas FG 7 C. These low-profile UG motor grader models have been especially and originally designed for underground use and have not been modified from traditional motor grader models. Besides of three traditional motor grader models designed for construction and snow / ice removal, the company offers three different sizes of specialized low-profile motor grader models for underground hard rock mines world-wide. New motor grader models Veekmas FG 244 and FG 246 obtained an excellent reception in the market. Six-wheel dive Veekmas FG 246 and four-wheel drive Veekmas FG 244 have been welcomed favourably on the market. Veekmas FG 246 and Veekmas FG 244 motor graders bring together the best features of FG and RG motor grader models in a very compact package. Veekmas FG 246, total weight of 19 300 kg and Veekmas FG 244, total weight of 18 900 kg, are efficient and advanced motor graders for road construction and road maintenance tasks. The easy construction of the front wheel drive system of Veekmas FG 246 as well as the automation of the control system of the front wheel drive system and exact anti-slip regulation enables optimal traction power in all circumstances. Veekmas FG 5 C and Veekmas FG 7 C have now electrically controlled joysticks and advanced can-bus controlled Iqan control and monitoring system which allows different driver settings for each driver and/or different working conditions. The output control of the electronically pre-controlled hydraulic system is continuous and takes place by proportional valves. The speed of the hydraulics can be adjusted steplessly. The control movements of the hydraulic operations are especially accurate as the proportional movements of the joysticks are adjusted direct on Iqan touch display by changing the current values. As needed, the values and the settings can also be adjusted from the factory. Also the localization of errors is facilitated. The operator friendliness has been improved because of new controls and electrically controlled joysticks which are located ergonomically. The joystick steering facility can be used when operating the machine on working gears. The operator can always use a steering wheel, too. The system allows versatile blade control automatism and automatic middle blade lifting when reversing. Frame steering follows automatically front wheel steering, and the frame steering returns automatically to middle position. The new type hand gas can be used as a cruise control. Both the models have now also an electrical anti-slip regulation automatism on front axles. Furthermore, Veekmas FG 5 C and Veekmas FG 7 C have now increased weight for better performance. Veekmas FG 5 C has the height of 1,990 mm, max outer turning radius of 4,900 mm with a front blade, basic machine weight of 9,200 kg, and three engine alternatives as follows: Deutz TCD 3.6 L4 EU Stage IV, EPA Tier 4f with 90 kW, Mercedes-Benz OM 904 LA EU Stage IIIA, EPA Tier 3, MSHA with 90 kW, Deutz BF4M2012 EU Stage II, EPA Tier 2, MSHA with 75 kW. Somewhat larger Veekmas FG 7 C has the height of 2,460 mm, max outer turning radius of 4,950 mm with a font blade, basic machine weight of 10,000 kg, and Deutz TCD 3.6 L4 EU Stage IV engine, EPA Tier 4f with 90 kW or alternatively Mercedes-Benz OM 904 LA EU Stage IIIA, EPA Tier 3, MSHA with 90 kW. All Veekmas UG motor grader models have advanced automatic hydraulically operated blade shock absorbers to give the motor graders increased ability to avoid impact damage normally associated with hard mining circumstances. It means that the middle blade moves up to 10 cm upwards without jumping the motor grader itself when driven over materials too hard to grade down at the desired level, for example, rocks that protrude over the road level. When needed, the system can be switched off. 