Autodesk and WorldsView are hosting CWx Africa – a virtual event taking place on 22 and 23 September. The Converged Workflow Experience (CWx) comprises four tracks dedicated to the digitization of workflows in each of the Build, Infrastructure, Manufacturing and PEM (Process, Energy & Mining) segments. Executives from technology users, resellers and vendors will showcase, challenge, discuss and share insight into digitalized workflow successes and challenges in Africa. The breadth of technological change in the construction industry is broadening and the pace is accelerating. Technology is disrupting the way we design, build, and operate buildings. Today’s building projects necessitate ‘BIM thinking’ to meet the ever-increasing needs of multi-discipline project teams. Population growth, rapid urbanisation and the hunger for a better life is accelerating the demand for great products and infrastructure in Africa. According to Carel Rootman, Technical Vice-President of Worldsview Technologies: “Increasing the use of integrated, digitalized workflows is key to meeting these growing demands on the construction industry.” “A forum where stakeholders from multiple disciplines in the build segment share and exchange insight, successes and challenges will assist in accelerating the use of integrated, digitalized workflows.” continues Rootman. By securing key industry players and customers who are using technology to solve interesting construction challenges, Autodesk, in collaboration with Worldsview Technologies, have launched such a forum. It is the Converged Workflow Experience or CWx Africa – Customer. “We are really excited by attendees learning about how real industry challenges are solved through workflow digitalization and by being part of Autodesk’s contribution to solving African construction challenges.” concludes Rootman. This event is recommended for Build segment stakeholders who can benefit by gaining valuable insight into digitalized workflow, ‘BIM thinking’ and meeting the growing construction demands in Africa. Autodesk is a global leader in 3D design, engineering, and entertainment software and Worldsview Technologies is a leading market-making distributor of technology solutions.