The reconstruction of  Kisumu-Chemelil-Muhoroni road also known as Nyanza Sugar Belt Road which links the city of Kisumu, to the towns of Miwani, Kibigori, Chemelil, and Muhoroni, in Kisumu and Nandi counties is expected to commence next month according to Peter Mundia, the Kenya National Highways Authority (KeNHA) Director-General. This comes a month after the state’s treasury approved over US$ 105M for the construction of four roads among them the approximately US$ 45.3M Kisumu-Chemelil-Muhoroni road. The construction works are expected to begin at the intersection with Kisumu – Kakamega (A1) road in Kisumu at Mamboleo and progress through Miwani, Chemelil, Muhoroni eventually terminating at Kapsitet junction, where it joins the Kericho -Kisumu road. Also Read: Kenya secures funds for the first phase of Horn of Africa Initiative Project The scope of the work mainly involves the resurfacing of the road to class II bitumen standard. Other improvements include the widening of the road to 11 meters, along with the construction of shoulders, culverts, drainage channels, passing lanes, bus stops, and access roads in urban centers. In some sections for example from the Mamboleo/A1 intersection to Great Lakes University, the road will be widened to a dual carriageway. The entire project is expected to be completed in one year at most since the right of way has already been obtained and the “project road traverses a fairly level terrain and straight alignment,” as per descriptions detailing its implementation plans. Upon completion, the 63-kilometer road project is expected to open up the region it reverses which has been largely closed out for decades after motorists abandoned the motorway, opting for the smoother Kericho-Kisumu road going through Awasi and Ahero. This will ultimately improve trade in the western region and beyond the border to other East African nations. The road is also expected to significantly reduce travel time between Kisumu, Nandi, and Kericho counties, thus ensuring faster accessibility and delivery of services.