Jumeirah Group has announced the opening of Jumeirah Living Marina Gate, an exceptional new-lifestyle serviced residence in the heart of Dubai Marina. A welcome addition to the iconic Marina skyline, this new Jumeirah Group landmark development, along with other Jumeirah Living properties, contribute to Dubai’s diverse hospitality sector, catering for demand in extended stays and serviced living options. As the final tower within Select Group’s flagship Marina Gate development, this stunning new property offers 508 branded residences comprising 104 serviced apartments – ideal for longer-stays – as well as 389 private residences including an executive penthouse and 15 villas that are available for sale. Strategically located close to excellent transportation links including the Dubai Metro, Dubai Tram, water taxis and walkways, Jumeirah Living Marina Gate is well connected to the city and just a short walk from exceptional dining, entertainment, sport and wellness attractions found in one of Dubai’s most captivating locations. It also boasts an array of lifestyle services onsite, offering this important audience segment the ultimate in urban living delivered with Jumeirah Living’s renowned service excellence. This lifestyle service, provided by Jumeirah Group, is recognised for taking serviced residences to a new level by providing a unique personalised living experience that combines the luxury of a five-star hotel with the privacy and comfort of home. Also Read: US $267m Antara residential development in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia opened The stylish and sophisticated residence truly is the jewel of Marina Gate, with its apartments, residences and villas designed and carefully considered to maximise the stunning vistas each offering floor-to-ceiling windows. An ideal space for business and leisure travellers as well as families, guests can feel right at home with the expansive living rooms, fully equipped open-plan kitchens, lavish bedrooms, comfortable workspaces, and other amenities. The design-led luxurious living destination will also offer an exclusive range of facilities including a temperature-controlled infinity pool, a dual-level gymnasium, 370 sqm residents’ lounge and business centre. This residence at Marina Gate is a premium, waterfront development with a gross development value of over US $1bn. Hugely popular with the residents of Dubai Marina due to its exceptional fitness amenities, extensive retail offerings and direct access to Marina Walk, the first tower was handed over in 2018 followed by the second in 2019. Now ready to welcome guests, the Jumeirah Living Marina Gate hotel serviced apartments are now open and early bookings have already been confirmed.