The following are the longest roads/highways in the world: The Pan-American Highway is the longest road in the world, covering 48,280km. It’s a network of roads that start at the northern tip of Alaska and run all the way down to the southern tip of Argentina. Most travelers take around a year to travel its full length. It crosses 14 countries, spans six time zones, and two continents. Highway 1 in Australia, is a 14,500km long route around the state, from the South Australian border near Eucla to the Northern Territory; it makes a giant loop around the country. It runs through just about every habitable area of Australia and through all of the major cities including Sydney, Melbourne, and Brisbane. It takes most travelers about three months to complete the road. The route consists of breathtaking coastlines, farmlands, and national parks. The Trans-Siberian Highway runs the entire length of Russia, beginning at the historic St. Petersburg and ending in Vladivostok, a port city just north of North Korea on the coast of the Sea of Japan. This 11,000km route is especially notorious for treacherous weather and driving conditions. Freezing temperatures and snowstorms in the winter, and permafrost in the summer. The Trans-Canada Highway is the longest national highway in the world, connecting the easternmost end and westernmost end of Canada. The 7,821km route is filled with beautiful Canadian scenery of mountains, rivers, and lakes. The road passes through different national parks, including Gros Morne National Park in Newfoundland and Labrador. The Golden Quadrilateral Highway is a network of highways connecting India’s four top metropolitan cities, namely Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai and Kolkata, thereby, forming a quadrilateral. The largest highway project in India, the Golden Quadrilateral project was launched in 2001 as part of National Highways Development Project (NHDP). The overall length of the quadrilateral is 5,846km consisting of four / six lane express highways. The project was estimated to cost US $13.2bn but was completed at about half of the estimated costs. The whole length of the quadrilateral was operational by January 2012. 