 The first ever Cooling United Live will take place on October 7-8, 2020 In lieu of traditional trade shows and conferences, Danfoss Cooling is excited to announce their first virtual event — Cooling United Live. Designed specifically for air conditioning, commercial refrigeration, food retail and industrial refrigeration audiences, Cooling United Live will serve as both a learning forum and new technology exhibition. “It is time to reconnect with our peers and leaders in our industry and move cooling forward. We’re excited and honored to present Danfoss’ first ever fully immersive digital and live event experience,” said Dorthe Borup Sindberg, Marketing Communications Director at Danfoss Cooling. “We have an engaging lineup of thought leaders and interactive sessions for both days of Cooling United Live. And, unlike a traditional conference, attendees can log in from anywhere in the world. Therefore, we’ve made sure to have experts on hand in multiple languages, so everyone can participate.” Moving forward with Cooling United Live Cooling United Live will focus on the various ways the cooling industry is growing and evolving. It will feature a wide variety of session types tailored to different audiences, including: A new approach in a remote environment “As we’re all adapting to a new way of life, we are eager to reconnect with our customers and all fellow cooling professionals in a new and engaging way,” said Stéphane Nassau, Senior Vice President of Global Sales at Danfoss Cooling. “That is our main purpose behind Cooling United Live — to provide an environment that fosters professional development and relationships in our new, sometimes disconnected, environment.” Cooling United Live is tailored toward installers, OEMs, distributors, wholesalers and anyone with a particular interest or speciality in the cooling industry. About Danfoss Danfoss is engineering technologies that enable the world of tomorrow to be better, smarter and more effective. In growing cities, we ensure the supply of fresh food and optimal comfort in homes and offices, while meeting the need for energy-efficient infrastructure, connected systems, and integration of renewable energy. Our solutions are used, for example, for cooling, air conditioning, heating, controlling electric motors and mobile equipment. Our innovative engineering can be traced back to 1933, and today Danfoss is a global leader with 28,000 employees and sales in more than 100 countries. We are privately owned by the founder’s family. For additional information and registration, please go to CoolingUnitedLive.com. By Lynne McCarthy Danfoss South Africa PR