US $267m Antara residential development has been opened in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. Gulf Related designed Antara in a manner that blends harmoniously with its historic surrounding environment. The overall vision for this cultural landmark location was safeguarded and successfully implemented in the design of the completed development. Antara offers a resort style living experience where residents can enjoy a variety of recreation and relaxation facilities in a resort-like environment surrounded by lush landscaping. The new residential community also has a large fitness and wellness centre, terrace restaurants and poolside cafes with five high quality food and beverage concepts namely Circle Café, Taqado, Poke by Sushi, Park House and Sushi Counter, all overlooking five interconnected pools. The Smart Kids Montessori Pre-School will have the capacity to accommodate up to a hundred children. Antara also offers a large and sophisticated business lounge, providing the convenience of working remotely in a relaxed yet professional environment. Antara is also launching the Village Inn, a ready-made temporary stay solution for those who wish to experience hotel life in a secure residential community. Also Read: Sustainable urban district ‘Penang South Islands’ to be developed in Malaysia According to Dr. Karim El Solh, co-Managing Partner of Gulf Related and Chief Executive Officer of Gulf Capital, Antara is a high-end, sophisticated, and family-friendly residential resort in the heart of historic Riyadh. “We are privileged to be part of the Diriyah community of developers who are contributing to and revitalising an area of high cultural and historic significance. Gulf Related’s US $266.6m investment in Antara highlights our belief in the promising residential real estate sector in Riyadh and the long-term growth prospects of the Kingdom. This development is Gulf Capital’s sixth major investment in Saudi Arabia and represents our commitment to supporting the Kingdom’s 2030 vision of achieving far-reaching economic prosperity and supporting the growth of the real estate sector as a key pillar of the economy,” he said.