Riyadh Airports has awarded a contract to Egis and local subsidiary Projacs to deliver project management consultancy services for airside projects at King Khalid International Airport (KKIA). Riyadh Airports manages and operates KKIA in the Saudi capital Riyadh, and is currently working on upgrading the KKIA airside infrastructure, adding new services and facilities to ensure that customers continue to enjoy pleasant, safe, and efficient services. Egis and its local subsidiary Projacs, which specialises in project management in the Middle East, will be project management consultants for design review, construction management and supervision of new airside infrastructure. These services include the review and approval of contractors’ technical deliverables relating to infrastructure, airfield ground lighting (AGL), NAVAIDS and an upgrade of baggage handling systems at Terminals 3 and 4. Most of the airside infrastructure will be redeveloped, including the two runways, taxiways, cargo aprons and isolated parking positions. The entire AGL equipment and systems will be replaced by a LED lighting system with a dedicated IT control system. Also Read: Gammon to undertake US $1.8bn Hong Kong International Airport expansion project According to Cédric Barbier, Executive Director, Aviation for Egis, Egis has been working at Riyadh Airport for more than six years now, including on equipment and systems operations and maintenance contracts. For this particularly large and complex project the company will mobilise a multi-skilled team of around 90 employees whose work will focus on delivering a sustainable development that complies with all the relevant international and national regulations, codes and standards. “Sustainability, safety and innovation will constitute the governing principles of how this project is managed. A full Program Management system will be deployed accordingly. These construction supervision and management services will help KKIA meet future air traffic needs safely and effectively, “ he added.