Microdrones Integrated Systems are industrial tools addressing specific complex mapping challenges for professional customers, relying on a fully integrated geospatial workflow that enables cutting-edge software technology from Microdrones to transform raw data collected in the field by Microdrones survey equipment into valuable high-quality survey-grade data. Microdrones is widely recognized for its LiDAR technology leadership. Microdrones delivers quality mapping systems across surveying, mining, construction, oil and gas, and precision agriculture. The company aims to empower you to deliver the best possible work while cutting costs, saving time, and completing projects more easily. Surveying professionals worldwide trust Microdrones for the quality of its professional drone applications, whether LiDAR or photogrammetry, calibration or algorithms. Microdrones solutions enable success, from surveying with mdMapper models to penetrating tree canopy via systems up to and including the mdLiDAR3000DL. But quality has its price, and uncertain business conditions can make aligning project needs, cost, and systems and software a tricky process for end users. By establishing various price points, mdaaS lets customers access top-end solutions while budgeting accurately, both internally and for the estimates they provide to their own customers. To make Microdrones a full partners in its customers’ success, the company’s sales force is being realigned to provide greater consultative service. For instance to establish a strong footprint in Africa the company closely work with their clients. “Pre Covid-19 I did shows in Kenya, Uganda and Botswana. Furthermore, in Africa we have offices in South Africa and agents in Kenya, Uganda, Nigeria, Ghana, Ethiopia, Mauritius this is to ensure we explain the full suite of options and to help customers to maximize their decisions. Extremely important to us as Africa is on the forefront of using technology in various sectors and seeing that Microdrones are one of the leading drone manufacturers in the world we can  ready to embrace technology,” said Hanno Truter Sales Manager Africa Speaking on the uniqueness of their products and services Truter confirms that, “The inventor of the first quadcopter, Udo Juerss, is also the co-founder of Microdrones, so Microdrones is at the forefront of quadcopter UAV industry. Microdrones products are of the highest quality in the world – and this is because we employ the world’s greatest team. Our people are passionate creators, forward thinkers, and driven to change the world for the better. They come from all over the globe, but share a common vision of making great contributions to the progress of technology. Microdrones supplies the full circle to the customer – from the drone, payload, mission planning software to data processing software. We are your one stop UAV shop. Unmanned aerial vehicles have inspired many to rethink processes, recreate their offerings, and redefine their companies and industries. As a result, businesses and organizations are achieving feats that previous generations could only have imagined. Innovation is about making things better. And Microdrones is at the forefront, partnering with companies to make their work safer, more profitable, more efficient, more accurate, more effective – more amazing. We’re proud to help companies harness the power of UAVs to take their business to the next level”. Microdrones has engineering centers and manufacturing facilities in Germany, Canada, France, China, and the United States, as well as a sales, support and distribution network spanning six continents. The company serves markets around the globe. 