The 1st phase of the ongoing construction of the Olembe Sports Complex in Yaounde, the capital city of Cameroon located in the southern part of the Central African country is edging closer to completion. This is the observation made by Narcisse Mouelle Kombi the Minister of Sports and Physical Education during his most recent visit to the site. The first phase of the complex includes the main stadium, two annexes, a shopping center, a hotel, a cinema center, and a supermarket. Also Read: Construction of Warka village in Cameroon’s rain forest underway “At this stage in the development of the works, the 60,000 seats have already been fixed. The last adjustments are being made on the playing area, hotel rooms, grandstand, presidential stand, supermarket, and the cinema center. The eight lighting poles of the secondary stadiums have already been installed and those of the main stadium are in the assembly phase. The works of the hotel, the supermarket, and the cultural center are progressing at the same pace as those of the lawn and the bleachers” explained the minister. On the other hand, the Olembe Project Manager, Marc Debandt of Magil Construction Company said that work on the playground is complete and that the athletics track is almost completed with only the special cover pending. “The conference room is also completed and the presidential area is at an advanced stage. Furthermore, we have installed eight masts in the training fields and the electricity company, Eneo has almost completed their connections” confirmed Debandt. The implementation of the second phase of the project which comprises the construction of the Olympic swimming pool and the Handball, Basketball, volleyball, and tennis courts, will take place immediately after the delivery of its predecessor. The project manager said that for this step, the design managers have already been appointed and have started the preparation. Kombi hailed the contractors for their efforts and expressed hope that the project will be complete to host the CHAN and AFCON games as planned.