We can’t deny the fact that the most essential principle to follow at the construction site is the safety of the people having to do something with the place. Praised be those people in charge, who stick to this truth and arrange work around it, taking care not only about them being safe from answering to legal liability but also about the people that might suffer because of safety issues. Some might think that this knowledge is useless since pretty much everybody in the construction place knows the basics, otherwise, how come they are allowed to work. If we look at the dire statistics сoncerning the prime root of death at the construction place is because of falls. It goes without saying that every worker on the site has to possess fall protection gear and be smart about the sets of life-saving steps in case something occurs. Purpose of the course 8 hour fall prevention online course or OSHA 8 hour fall prevention online is developed for the builders to be capable of dealing with all kinds of possible risks and dangers taking place at their working spots. This online training course is devoted to teaching workers to recognize, avoid, mitigate, and fix possible perils at the construction site. Listening to an 8 hour fall prevention online course, students will become familiar with: kinds of fall risks, accountability of people in charge, a plethora of protection systems, calculation of fall distances. It is important to mention that training of this kind is the required condition for the builder to be allowed in the construction places of NYC. After the course is finished, the students will: Understand the dire statistics of death falls at the working place Learn about the kinds of fall risks Get to know the requirements and specifications of falls controls; Struck-by and fall-to-the-same level control. Prime responsibilities of the boss Learn the  demands  of the New York City chapter 33, section 3315.1 Know the equation “Force=Mass x Acceleration” Students are obliged to attend all the hours declared by the course timing and be fully engaged in every activity suggested. There is also a quiz to pass, to be sure that the person is ready to apply the knowledge successfully during the working process. To sum up There is never enough to learn and upgrade when it comes to learning about safety. Safety at the construction sites, specifically. All the knowledge is valuable, but the one you get from an 8 hour fall prevention course is crucial since their practical implementation is the pledge of saving a life. Is there anything more important?