Tata Power, India’s largest integrated power utility has signed a Power Purchase Agreement (PPA) with Tata Motors to commission India’s largest solar Carport project. With 6.2MWp capacity, the project is expected to reduce 1.6 lakhs ton of carbon emission for Tata Motors in its life time. The grid-connected carport plant requires high-level engineering and customised designing to assemble the massive carport structures. Furthermore, advanced technology and intricate planning is Tata Power’s strength which will facilitate them to execute the project. Solar Carports continue to prove themselves as excellent examples in terms of ‘efficient use of space’ for solar installations and are expected to demonstrate their potential by being a source of growth for the rooftop sector in the future. Tata Power’s solar arm-Tata Power Renewables comes with a successful background of executing the World’s largest Rooftop at a single location at RSSB, Amritsar-16MW, 2.67MW at Cochin International Airport, World’s largest solar powered Cricket stadium – Cricket Club of India with 820.8 kWp capacity, unique installation of solar vertical farm at Dell Bangalore-120kW, 1.4MW floating solar at Tata Chemicals, Nellore & many such landmark projects. In addition, Tata Power Solar is also carrying out an extensive residential rooftop program across length & breadth of the country to make people aware on the benefits of savings through solar. Speaking on the project, Mr. Praveer Sinha, CEO & MD, Tata Power said that as One Tata initiative they are excited to partner with Tata Motors to set the largest carport in India. “We are confident that this PPA will complement our efforts to lower the carbon footprint and we look forward to exploring new ways to harness clean resources and implement them in our business operations,” he said. On the new installation, Mr. Rajesh Khatri, Vice President PV Operations, Tata Motors said that they are looking forward to setting up India’s largest Solar carport with Tata Power as this will help us reduce our carbon emissions. “We are extremely excited about the eco-friendly future operations and energy consumption,” he added