The government of Alberta has signed a memorandum of understanding (MOU) with TransPod, to support the development of safe, high-speed transportation in Alberta, based on the 1000km/h Hyperloop Transportation System. The MOU facilitates the process of attracting private investment to the province, in order to build a multi-billion-dollar infrastructure project. The project is estimated to create up to 38,000 jobs over 10 years, diversify Alberta’s economy, improve the efficient movement of people and goods, and reduce Alberta’s carbon emissions by up to 300,000 tonnes per year. The MOU will see Alberta Transportation: Support TransPod undertaking further study on the feasibility of developing its technology in Alberta; share available transportation data as appropriate that may assist TransPod in assessing the feasibility of its technology; work with TransPod officials to identify suitable land that can safely accommodate a test track and participate in discussions with potential large institutional investors where suitable No financial commitments or endorsements have been made by Alberta Transportation regarding the 1000km/h Hyperloop Transportation System project. The phases of the Alberta TransPod project include: Short-term: feasibility study (2020-2022); Short-term: research and development phase (2020-2024); Medium-term: test track construction and high-speed tests (2022-2027); and Long-term: construction of a full inter-city line between Edmonton and Calgary (to begin in 2025). Also Read: MBTA approves US $403.5m contract for South Coast Rail Main Line construction in US The TransPod system is being developed to carry passengers and cargo between cities at over 1000 km/h. Fossil-fuel-free and fully electric, it is a new generation of ultra-high-speed ground transportation being developed for construction around the world. It is built on a proprietary and innovative design that leverages aerospace engineering and is bolstered by a global network of engineering partners. The TransPod vehicle’s top speed is faster than a jet, and it travels at ground level in a protected guideway that is immune to weather. With the convenience of a subway that departs every few minutes, TransPod will avoid airline flight diversions, travel faster than a jet, and three times as fast as a high-speed train. The TransPod vehicle’s innovative and cost-efficient design is a new leap forward for transportation that is clean, safe, cost-efficient, and comfortable. The company is developing this technology with high safety standards in collaboration with the European Union and United States transportation committees. The TransPod system is being examined by governments and organizations for several projects around the world, and the company is currently in the design and development phase for a testing facility in France. The TransPod vehicle will also be featured in a demonstrator which will be showcased in Canada and France, to unveil new breakthroughs that are part of the 1000km/h TransPod system.