Sanctuary Homes, the development arm of Sanctuary Housing Association, has appointed Higgins to design and build 120 new homes off Barrow Hall Road in Great Wakering, Southend-on-Sea, UK. The US $31.2m contract will provide 120 new homes consisting of 110 houses and a range of apartments of different size and tenure to help meet local needs. The project will also include the creation of play areas and publicly accessible open space, along with a new pedestrian and cycle way linking Barrow Hall Road with Southend Road. The buildings will be built to complement the local area with dark roofs with brick and occasional rendered walls and comply with Rochford DC Housing Design SPD Jan 2007 and The Essex Design Guide. Also Read: Affordable housing program in Nigeria receives boost from CBN As part of the development, formal and informal landscaping will provide a variety of differing ‘character’ areas, including formal squares and a boulevard along the primary highway. Hedgerows, which are important for wildlife species, will also be enhanced with new planting to provide ‘ecological corridors’ within the site and beyond. Open swales, ponds and basins form part of the sustainable drainage system while a large wet feature within the public open space will be provided which will serve as an attenuation pond and encourage diverse wildlife. A pumping station, which will be largely underground and hidden from view, will also be built. According to Steve Leakey, Managing Director of Higgins, they are really pleased to be appointed by Sanctuary Homes to provide brand new homes at Barrow Hall Road. “We have a wealth of experience providing high quality housing and creating mixed-tenure developments that are inspiring, safe and enhance the local community. We look forward to starting on site in the coming months,” he said. Sarah Brind, Sanctuary’s Head of Development – South, commented that they are delighted to be working with Higgins to deliver these much-needed new homes and strengthen our commitment to boosting the local housing market. “The development will help address local housing needs, with a variety of homes available for affordable rent, shared ownership and outright sale,” she said. The development has been designed by Chaplin Farrant Architects and Engineer is Richard Jackson.