Western north solid waste treatment facility project has been set in motion following a sod-cutting ceremony presided over by President Akufo-Addo. The project is developed by the government of the West African country in collaboration with Zoomlion Ghana Limited (ZGL). According to Mr. Joseph Siaw Agyepong, the Executive Chairman of the Jospong Group of Companies, who doubles as the Chief Executive Officer of ZGL, the project situated on a 100-acre piece of land at Aboanidua in the Wiaso Municipal would start immediately and be complete within a period of four months. Also Read: Implementation of Wenchi Water Supply Project in Ghana begins Receiving 200 tonnes of solid waste a day upon completion, the Western north solid waste treatment plant will have facilities for plastic waste recycling, finished products, and spare parts, compost, and sorting workshops, among others. Mr. Agyepong said that the facility would create employment opportunities in the construction phase and approximately 250 direct and indirect jobs upon completion. Speaking during the sod-cutting ceremony, President Akufo-Addo said that the issue of sanitation was a top priority for his government, which is why the Ministry of Sanitation and Water Resources (MSWR) which is led by Mrs. Cecilia Abena Daapah was created. The Minister, present in the ceremony said that her ministry constantly engages the Environmental Service Providers Association (ESPA) in ways that waste can be put to good use. She said that research carried out in 2017 showed that Ghana generates five million tonnes of refuse a day of which 60% can be turned into organic waste while another 80% can be recycled into plastics and other products for reuse. The president affirmed that the country would be able to achieve Sustainable Development Goals (SGGs) 6, 3, 8, 11, and 13 with the construction of waste treatment plants in all the 16 regions. The Western North plant brings the total number of waste treatment facilities to five in various regions of the West African country.