There is frequent use of standard drilling equipment which ensure buildings don’t collapse in cases like heavy rains. Big drilling manufacturers are currently working on autonomous drilling machines, that can in theory be operated out of everybody office or home. The following are some of the top modern drilling equipment companies in the world. Morath drilling technology stands for the highest standards, quality, continuous innovation and also for stability and continuity. They develop adequate solutions for the smallest of tasks right up to your major projects. In addition to their existing customers, more and more companies from around the world choose our products and our customized solutions. Morath’s machines are not only customized to the customer’s specific needs, but also manufactured by Morath company. As market leader, Morath offers consulting, development, manufacturing and service solutions from one source. Customers value Morath company not only for their quality machines but also for their know-how and experience to provide solid solutions for more than 50 years. Zoomlion is mainly engaged in developing and manufacturing major high-tech equipment in the areas of engineering industry and agricultural industry. With more than 20 years of innovation and development, the company is now a global enterprise possessing 10 major categories and 55 product lines, as well as nearly 460 leading products. Zoomlion is the first Chinese construction machinery company to be listed on both Shenzhen and Hong Kong stock exchanges. At present, the company is actively promoting strategic transformation, aiming to build a high-end equipment manufacturing enterprise integrating engineering machinery, agricultural machinery and financial services. In 12 years, Zoomlion has provided strong support to the urban development and economic growth in Africa through participation in major infrastructure projects, such as Algeria’s East-West highway and capital airport terminal construction, South Africa’s World Cup venues’ construction, Kenya’s Mombasa-Nairobi Standard Gauge Railway (SGR), and oil projects in Mombasa. It has sold over 4,000 pieces of equipment in Africa and is the largest Chinese construction machinery manufacturer ranking among top three within the continent. Industrial equipment supplier Vermeer has been providing agricultural and industrial equipment that is built tough, built to perform, built for value and backed by caring customer service for more than 50 years. Its robust dealer network consists of more than 500 dealership locations worldwide. The company also delivers a positive impact on the more than 3,000 team members of Vermeer and its affiliated companies, who have chosen to build a lasting, successful career at one of its worldwide locations. These are people who are committed to making a difference in the communities in which they live and work. The company’s unique aspect in the machines include; Reliability, Durability and Longevity. This has contributed to the large market share Vermeer holds. Other aspects include ease of operation, ease of maintenance and common controls throughout the entire product range. The operator controls on the majority of Vermeer drills are identical to those of the larger pipeline installation rigs and that enables fleet owners to have all machines sizes being operated by same HDD personnel with ease. ELB Equipment (ELB), is one of a few South African companies who can offer a broad range of earthmoving, construction, mining and quarrying equipment from a single supplier. The company has established itself as one of the most respected names in the industry and is a division of ELB Equipment Holdings Group, a JSE-listed company. All their Ditch Witch machines are designed to have class-leading performance in a package that is easy to use, reliable with lower maintenance requirements. The Ditchwitch Horizontal Directional Drill is one of the leading proponents in the Ditch Witch range allowing burrowing beneath roads and pavements with minimal disruption to surface traffic, while also being able to avoid other buried utilities. HDD technology effectively employs a drill rig to steer a drill pipe on a set horizontal path underground from one side of an obstacle to the other. Once on the other end the operator is then able to attach a backreamer which is pulled through the narrow pilot hole to cut and remove the soil to the required diameter. ELB advises one to consult with the relevant experts to ensure that the right equipment is procured for the job and that the right selection of ground engaging tools are selected for the type of terrain that will be encountered. Also Read: Ciancaleoni Company-Drilling and Foundation Equipment Comacchio Srl produces machines for the small, medium  and large diameter drilling since 1986 for a wide range of applications in the field of ground engineering, geotechnics, mining exploration, water well and geothermal. One of the strong points of Comacchio Srl is the wide variety of products within the range, extended to over 80 models, from 2 to 68t weight. Multiuse drilling rigs are suitable for several types of  specialized works including modular drilling rigs for scaffolding, hydraulic crawler drilling rigs, drilling rigs installed on trucks and drilling attachments for hydraulic crawler excavators. Special machines are studied and built on request. Comacchio has implemented its many years of technological knowledge and experience in geotechnical engineering to create new generation of mining exploration rigs. Each set-up incorporates the ability to perform multiple drilling types from the same rig and this results in high efficiency, reduced unproductive time and lower total cost of ownership. Herrenknecht is the only company worldwide to deliver tunnel boring machines for all geologies and in all diameters – ranging from 0.10 to 19 meters. The product range comprises tailor-made machines for traffic, supply and disposal tunnels, technologies for routing of pipe lines, as well as additional equipment and service packages. Herrenknecht also manufactures drilling equipment for vertical and inclined shafts as well as deep drilling rigs. In order to always be close to clients, projects and jobsites, the company is represented on all continents with around 80 locations. With horizontal directional drilling technology from Herrenknecht, pipelines can be installed rapidly, economically and with minimized impact on environment and existing infrastructure. Later application of the pipelines include the transportation of oil & gas, sewage water, district heating, high-voltage power lines, cable bundles for telecommunication and more. HDD Rigs are highly adaptable in diameter and lengths of the borehole and used mainly in stable, loose soils and rock. Drilltech International is a young and dynamic organization established in 2015 and has made its mark as a reliable Supplier of high quality equipment’s for construction, industrial, mining and quarrying industry with support from well-known brands and OEM partners. The company provides the highest quality of service, as business partners and service providers by using advanced technology with high-grade efficiency at the most competitive price. Over the years, Drilltech International has been involved in the introduction of new innovative technologies and work practices inorder to gain satisfaction of their clients and to be the preferred partner for their most challenging projects. Soilmec has always developed safe, innovative, cutting edge technologies supplying the construction industry with the full spectrum of equipment solutions. Thanks to a constantly upgraded and broadening range of products and a greatly increased production capability, Soilmec is an established landmark in the international ground engineering field. An important feature is the multi-functionality: the ability to perform all different pile techniques as well as soil consolidation techniques. Based on the experience and success of the first generation, the new SR rigs have been designed as the best answer to the global piling construction industry demand improving their productivity and operating flexibility to an ever higher degree, in addition to operator comfort and safety. The “Blue” rigs are designed in compliance with new European standards with a special care of an easier accessibility, an higher visibility and a safer maneuverability without losing sight the eco-friendly characteristics. The rigs are equipped with removable side platforms with handrails and ladders for easier and safer access to the cab and turret top floor, Video-cameras kit with a dedicated monitor into the operator cab and adjustable mirrors for the maximum control of the working area all around the rig, an automatic acoustic alarm during rig travelling and turret rotation and fiberglass canopies  for noise level reduction. Specialist foundation engineering machinery from Bauer has been a byword for top performance and quality and for continuous innovation since the late 1960s. BAUER Maschinen GmbH, which designs and manufactures rotary drilling rigs, diaphragm wall equipment and all related tools, has been operating on the market as an independent entity within the BAUER Group since 2001. Products of the BAUER Group can be found all over Africa with particular focus to Algeria, Morocco, Egypt, Tunisia, Kenya, Tanzania, Mozambique,  Mauritius, South Africa, Botswana, Namibia, Ivory Coast, Ghana and Senegal. Specialist foundation engineering equipment from the BAUER Maschinen Group is the global benchmark in the industry. Customers all over the world trust in the unmatched quality and efficiency of Bauer as a global market leader in specialist foundation engineering equipment such as rotary drilling rigs, trench cutters and drilling accessories, as well as deep drilling rigs, foundation cranes, exploration and well-water drilling rigs, pile drivers, anchor drilling rigs, deep vibrators, diesel-powered hammers, hydraulic hammers and desanders.