Construction of the 479-unit Aura building in Dubai, United Arab Emirates (UAE) is 85% complete. Azizi is well on track to complete the excellently connected development, which comprises 349 studios, 87 one-bedroom, and 43 two-bedroom apartments, by Q2, 2020, highlighting its commitment to timely project delivery. The structure is 100% complete, while the blockwork and internal plastering are at 99% and 98% respectively. The second mechanical, electrical and plumbing (MEP) fix is now at 93%, with façade works and tiling both having reached 90%. Azizi has also recorded the 86% completion of the heating, ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC), 85% for the elevator works, and 82% for the overall finishes. External works and the swimming pool are progressing rapidly. Also Read: 270-unit high-rise apartment to be developed in Dallas, US According to Mohamed Ragheb, Executive Director – Engineering Division at Azizi Developments, Aura is one of the many developments the company is looking forward to handing over to the client this year, with two 2020 completions already under the company’s belt and many more to come. “It fills us with immense pride to see this world-class 18-storey development materialise at such a fast-tracked pace. As part of our unwavering pursuit of delivering on our promises, we maintain remarkably high levels of operational efficiency and excellence, all while taking precautionary measures — amid the current global situation — that meet and exceed circulated advisories,” he added. Aura is one of the very few freehold residential developments in the heart of JAFZA, the UAE’s flagship integrated business hub, largest matured free zone area in the world and biggest port in the Middle East region. With the UAE Exchange Metro Station and Sheikh Zayed Road right at its doorstep, and designed with ample lighting and spacious areas, Aura is for those seeking a modern, lively lifestyle. With its outstanding connectivity and strategic location, the development grants residents easy access to the city’s prime business, leisure and retail hubs, including numerous Fortune 500 conglomerate headquarters in its vicinity, Al Maktoum International Airport (20 min.), JBR and Dubai Marina (10 min.), JLT and Bluewaters (12 min.), Ibn Battuta Mall (7 min.), and the Expo 2020 site (10 min.), which will continue to thrive as a vibrant entertainment hub even after the event. Aura features a comprehensive range of amenities, including two swimming pools, a fully equipped gym, a health club with sauna, vast open spaces and recreational areas, concierge service, covered parking and a podium level with over 9,000 sq. ft of retail space. Homes in the immaculately designed tower comprise premium appliances and bathroom fittings.