The Power Transmission & Distribution Business of India’s L&T Construction company has received orders for its products and services in India and in the Mena region including Egypt, Oman, and Kuwait. In Kuwait, a prestigious order has been awarded to upgrade substations and related power facilities in KNPC’s Mina Al Ahmadi oil refinery. The revamped network of distribution substations with the latest technology will enhance the reliability of power supply and facilitate expansion. The business has won a 400 kV Grid Station order in Oman which will be a crucial element in the Sultanate’s major transmission initiative to interconnect the grids in the south and north with the PDO Area In Egypt, an order to Design, Supply, Construct & Commission a 220 kV Gas Insulated Substation has been bagged from a reputed client. The renewable arm of the business has won large EPC orders on the domestic and international fronts to establish Solar Photovoltaic plants totaling more than 500 MW. These grids connected to power plants also entail related power evacuation and interconnection systems. An order has been won to strengthen the urban HT distribution network in Chennai with the addition of Ring Main Units and Feeder Remote Terminal Units on a total turnkey basis. Also, fully automated, unmanned 33 kV Gas Insulated Substations will be established at select locations. Another order has been secured to supply and install Medium Voltage capacitor banks with related accessories under different discoms in Uttar Pradesh. Additional orders have been received in the ongoing substation, transmission line, and renewable projects. Larsen & Toubro is an Indian multinational engaged in technology, engineering, construction, manufacturing and financial services with over USD 21 billion in revenue. It operates in over 30 countries worldwide. A strong, customer-focused approach and the constant quest for top-class quality have enabled L&T to attain and sustain leadership in its major lines of business for eight decades.