Kenya intends to embark on the construction of a state-of-the-art outpatient complex at the Naivasha Sub-County Referral Hospital at a cost of over US$3M. Also Read: Reconstruction of houses in West Pokot Kenya commences Nakuru County Executive Committee Member for Health Dr. Zachary Gichuki Kariuki said that they are finishing up the tendering process after which the site will be handed over to a contractor.  The project is expected to come to life in about 18 months when the construction work commences. The construction of the state-of-the-art outpatient complex according, to Dr. Zachary Gichuki Kariuki, will be equipped with a new trauma center that will deal with the high number of accidents along the Nairobi-Nakuru highway and the Naivasha-Mai Mahiu road. It will also have a pharmacy, x-ray facilities and modern laboratories and is expected to ease congestions in other health facilities at its proximity. “Our plan with this project is to cope with the increasing numbers of referred patients from other hospitals and health centers within the Rift Valley region. We also intend to offer quality and affordable disease diagnostic, management and treatment services,” stated Dr. Gichuki. “Currently both the in-patients and the out-patients compete for the same facilities in this hospital. We wish to change this narrative by dedicating the laboratories, pharmacy, and X-ray facilities within the proposed stand-alone facility to the out-patients in order to ensure a faster and more efficient process of laboratory tests, X-ray services and dispensing of drugs,” emphasized the Nakuru County Executive Committee Member for Health. The project is a joint partnership between the Nakuru County Government, the Kenya National government and the Kenya Electricity Generating Company (Kengen). The county government of Nakuru provided the land on which the facility will be erected while KenGen is the main financier.  The latter is also in charge of the tendering process and will identify the best contractor for the project.