Construction of the Cricket Valley Energy Center in New York, US which was built by Bechtel is complete. The 1,100MW combined-cycle plant in Dover in New York will use advanced emissions -control technology to ensure it operates as one of the most efficient power-generation facilities in the US. The Cricket Valley Energy Center uses a highly efficient, environmentally responsible process of converting clean-burning natural gas to electricity. The station uses three combustion turbines, each paired with a heat recovery steam generator and steam turbine generator. Unlike older combined-cycle power plants, the facility is equipped with state-of-the-art emission-control technology that significantly reduces emissions. Bechtel began construction at Cricket Valley Energy Center in July 2017. The combustion turbines, heat recovery steam generators, steam turbines, and other ancillary equipment for the plant were supplied by General Electric. Also Read: 150MW wind power farm to be constructed in Northern Iowa, US Since 1898, Bechtel has helped customers complete more than 25,000 projects in 160 countries on all seven continents that have created jobs, grown economies, improved the resiliency of the world’s infrastructure, increased access to energy, resources, and vital services, and made the world a safer, cleaner place. Differentiated by the quality of people and the company’s relentless drive to deliver the most successful outcomes, they align their capabilities to the customers’ objectives to create a lasting positive impact. Bechtel serves the Infrastructure; Nuclear, Security & Environmental; Oil, Gas & Chemicals; and Mining & Metals markets. The company’s services span from initial planning and investment, through start-up and operations. Bechtel is built upon time-tested values of excellence and integrity. This means working to the highest ethical standards and being measured by the enduring quality of projects. Year after year Bechtel is among the safest companies in the industry.