South Korea-based car parts company Hyundai Mobis is set to expand its technical centre in Hyderabad, India to strengthen its software development for autonomous vehicles. As part of its global R&D networking in Korea, North America, Europe, China and India, the company will expand its technical center in India, which develops and validates automotive software to strengthen its R&D activities in India, particularly software development for autonomous vehicles. The new facility will be set up and operated in a new IT complex adjacent to its first technical center which validates and develops software for mass-production products, including IVI (In-Vehicle Infotainment), chassis control systems (MDPS, ABS, electronic suspension, etc.) and airbag control units (ACUs), and develop custom products for local customers. This is in order to strengthen automobile software development, which has recently been growing exponentially, and secure supply stability. Also Read: New automotive innovation centre to be constructed in Singapore The center will focus on the development of control logic for autonomous driving and parking and recognition algorithms for autonomous driving sensors (camera, radar, lidar). The strategy is to improve the accuracy of autonomous driving sensor data by developing a deep learning-based image recognition algorithm and signal processing algorithm, while developing various control logic to support mass production. The company will also be able to develop software performance improvement tools to improve the reliability of autonomous driving software. One good example is to build databases on image recognition algorithm learning through PC-based virtual environment simulation of various driving situations. This is expected to upgrade the autonomous driving control algorithm and strengthen software development capabilities through efficient analysis of radar/lidar sensor data. Starting from its technical center in Korea, Hyundai Mobis has been building a global R&D network in the US, Germany, China and India, with a total of over 5,000 R&D employees. Based on close cooperation, these centers are performing R&D activities to take the initiative in future automotive technologies.