The following are some of the top wind energy companies in the world: Since its inception in 2001, Genesis Eco-Energy is one of South Africa’s pioneering renewable energy companies providing project development, management and operations services across a range of renewable energy technologies. According to the Director, Davin Chown, through their learning from the work done in South Africa they now look to expand to other countries. Genesis has currently 4 wind energy projects in South Africa totaling to 500MW. In addition, two large wind projects are under development in Sub-Saharan Africa. The Jeffrey’s Bay project was Genesis’ first foray into wind energy. The 138MW wind farm, is one of the first large scale commercial wind energy power stations in the country. In 2013 Genesis and its partners secured three more wind farms namely the Loeriesfontein and Khobab wind farms, and the Noupoort wind farm. Mr. Chown further emphasizes that Genesis’ unique blend of technical skills, stakeholder relationships and development approach allows them to work in new ways with their partners in order to ensure projects are de-risked. Globeleq is a leading investor, developer, owner and operator of power projects in Africa. Since its inception in 2002, Globeleq has implemented a diverse range of wind power projects in numerous developing markets across Africa, South America and South East Asia. Globeleq has nearly 1,300 MW of power generation in operation in Africa with 8 plants and 5 countries and has a further 2,000 MW of projects in development. Specifically with wind they are involved in the 138 MW Jeffrey’s Bay Wind Farm, one of the first wind farms to be commissioned in South Africa. According to the CEO, Paul Hanrahan, Globeleq’s strength is the ability to develop, build and operate power generation in a variety of markets in Africa, selecting technology appropriate for long term sustainability. It also invests capital to enhance the performance of its existing plants, develop projects and successfully construct and operate those projects. Additionally, the company has a highly qualified team of power developers, engineers, legal, financial and administrative professionals located on the continent with skills ranging from inception, development acquisition, financing, and construction to operation and management of power projects/plants. This combined with their world class operational excellence, and a flexible approach to tailor energy projects, makes Globeleq competitive in an increasingly competitive space, especially in the renewable sector. Also Read: Top solar energy companies in the world 3Energy Services (Pty) Ltd is the South African branch of 3Energy GmbH, a German facility management company with a track record of more than 15 years in the operation and management of wind and solar photovoltaic (PV) assets in Europe and Africa. According to the Managing Director at 3Energy(SA), Mr. Florian Kroeber, the company is providing Asset Management and Operations & Maintenance services to wind energy projects in Africa with current operations in South Africa and Uganda. It currently has a portfolio of over 400MW under operations in Africa. 3Energy involvement in the full life cycle of renewable energy projects provides a balanced view on the efficient operations and hence longevity of a power plant. Founded in 1996, Obelisk is a leading provider of high quality services to the renewable energy sector, supporting more than 200 renewable development sites and 20+ wind farms in South Africa since 2010. With office locations in Dublin, Cavan, Liverpool, Manchester and Cape Town.  Obelisk specializes in wind measurement services, the provision of HS&E services, statutory inspections, operation maintenance services and blade and tower services. Obelisk has specifically trained Wind Turbine Service Technicians and offers Operation and Maintenance support services in South Africa. Obelisk’s teams support OEM teams during the delivery of their Warranty and Service Plans, as a credible local service provider. Michael De Waal, Head of Operations at Obelisk SA, affirms that quality is a big component of their works and that they have many service line awarding a broad spectrum of support for clients in the renewable energy.