Ghana is to revamp its hospital infrastructure beginning with the construction of a 400-bed capacity hospital at Tema to replace the existing Tema General Hospital. This was revealed by the Member of Parliament for Tema Central, Hon. Kofi Brako a while after the parliament approved over US$97m to fund the project. The project is a part of the Government of Ghana Health Sector Policy to revamp its hospital infrastructure and also achieve the third Sustainable Development Goal (SGD 3) and it will be executed by Israel based E.D.C. Engineering, Development & Construction Company Ltd. The new Regional Hospital when completed in two years’ time it is expected to provide functional areas such as Cardiology, Ophthalmology, Urology, Gynaecology, Orthopaedic, Dentistry and Dialysis Units. Also Read: Rehabilitation of Anafo market in Ghana begins According to Hon. Kofi Brako the new Regional Hospital will comprise of 100 seatter Outdoor Educational Area, 7 Antenatal Consulting Rooms, 6 Theaters and an 8 bed ICU and Other Isolation rooms. It will also have an ultramodern Pharmacy Unit, Physiotherapy Unit, a Morden Laboratory with Chemistry, Virology, Pathology, Haematology and Biochemistry rooms as well as other supporting facilities such as imaging area with MRI, CT scan, x ray rooms, Ultrasound, Fluoroscopy and Mammography areas. On the other hand, the parliament has also approved over US$68m Contract Agreement between the Government of Ghana and Poly Changda Overseas Engineering Company Limited of China for the refurbishment and equipping of the La General Hospital in Accra. The contract covers the engineering, procurement and construction of the hospital which is currently in a deplorable condition. The aim of the project is to provide the required infrastructure, medical equipment and ancillary services to ensure that the hospital is fully operational, and making it conducive for patients and healthcare professionals. A comprehensive implementation plan of the project entails the components of loan acquisition, demolition of existing structures, construction of new facilities, training of human resource and staff development activities. Some of the parts of the Hospital to be given face-lift include surgical, emergency, maternity, male and female wards, laboratory, physiotherapy department, public health department and the diagnostic center. The project is set to take approximately two years of construction to complete.