The ongoing construction of new offices for the Tanzania National Electoral Commission (NEC) in Dodoma, the capital city of the East African country, is nearing completion according to the projects contractor. The contractor, SUMAJKT (Shirika la Uzalishaji Mali-Jeshi la Kujenga Taifa) led by Major James Philemon, the Operation Commander said that the construction work done so far accounts to 90% of the entire work and that they will hand over the eight-storey building to the NEC any time this month. Construction of new offices for Tanzania National Electoral Commission will comprise of three separate office blocks which are the main building, a results center and the warehouse center that will be used to preserve the electoral body’s most important documents. Also Read: Construction of Mbulu District Hospital in Tanzania on track NEC Director of Election Dr. Wilson Charles said that all activities related to the 2020 general election at the national level will be conducted at their new offices in Dodoma. The project was first awarded to Tanzania Building Agency (TBA) and later transferred to SUMAJKT after the former was released for failure to cope with contractual terms, particularly the agreed time frame. The contract between SUMAJKT and NEC was signed on the seventh of the first month of this year, after which the army started clearing the site for the project. According to Major James Philemon, the Operation Commander for SUMAJKT, the actual construction works began ten days later. After the signing of the contract, Eng. Lazaro Masanja, the project manager at SUMAJKT assured the client that he was positive that they would deliver the project this April at high quality and standards. “We have the best workforce that works around the clock, which is why you have witnessed many of our projects being handed over to our clients on a timely manner. Furthermore, our team is experienced enough for this sort of project and we therefore promise quality work that reflects the client’s funds,” said Eng. Masanja.