The Global Construction 2030 report predicts that India will become the third largest construction market, behind the USA and China, by 2021. The rapidly increasing mega projects in India will lead to a massive boost in the nation’s infrastructure. Also Read:Top ongoing mega projects in Tanzania The following are the top ongoing mega projects in India The Delhi-Mumbai Trade Corridor is a 1,483 km railway track worked into nine “Mega Industrial Zones”. The main aim of the billion dollar scheme is to create a quick, reliable trade route linking the north of India to the south. Currently, it takes 14 days to transfer cargo along this route according to Industrial Policy and Promotion (DIPP) Secretary Amitabh Kant.  With the DMIC’s completion, it will take just 14 hours. The GIFT city project  which kicked off in 2016 was conceived to focus on promoting India as a financial power. It will cover a construction area of 8.5 million square metres. 200 skyscrapers, some upwards of 80 metres tall, will dot the area, rivalling other financial districts in scope. World One Tower US $321m WorldOne is a tall residential skyscraper under construction in Mumbai. Designed by world famous fashion icon Giorgio Armani, the project is located in Lower Parel and being built on a 17.5-acre site of the defunct Shrinivas Mill. At a sky-piercing 117 stories, and over 440 metres in height, World One in Mumbai will be the world’s tallest purely residential structure. The complex will feature swimming pools, gyms, a health club and even a cricket pitch complete with pavilion. NMIA is one of the biggest greenfield airport projects in the world which is expected to handle 10 million passengers in its first year of operation, and a capacity of 60 million per year by 2030. NAMI will cover 11.6 square kilometres once built, with two parallel runways and a terminal building situated in between them. It will have to divert the nearby Ulwe River, flattening of hills, levelling ground and clearing green patches. Lokhandwala Minerva complex will become a huge presence in the Mumbai skyline. It stretches over 82 storeys to reach over 300 metres in height and built on former slum land, acquired using various schemes including providing free land and rehabilitation for those moved. Lokhandwala Minerva will boasts designer interiors, fully equipped gyms and even a golf simulator. The Diamond Quadrilateral is a project of the Indian railways to establish a high speed rail network in India. The Diamond Quadrilateral will connect the four mega cities in India, Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata and Chennai, similar to the Golden Quadrilateral expressway system. High-speed train on Mumbai-Ahmedabad section will be the first high-speed train corridor to be implemented in the country. The project was launched in 2014 by the Government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.