To counter China’s rapidly slowing economic growth, the Chinese government has returned to the policy playbook that worked well in the past: spending money on large infrastructure projects. Also Read:Top ongoing mega projects in Egypt The following are the top ongoing mega projects in China  The Shanghai Urban Rail transit expansion includes construction of nine rail projects including six subway lines and three intercity railways. The projects which began in 2018 are estimated to total 286km The network is aimed at creating better connections between the financial hub’s two airports and two major railway stations. They are expected to be complete by 2023. Eight regional intercity railways will be built in a metropolitan cluster along the Yangtze River in Jiangsu Province, a move to shorten commuting time from Nanjing, the capital city of Jiangsu province, to other districts and cities within the province. Some of the lines will also connect Nanjing to municipalities in the neighbouring Anhui Province. Construction of the intercity lines are estimated to run until 2025. The Wuhan Urban Rail Transit involves construction of four metro lines and four urban express lines in the central Chinese city of Wuhan. The NDRC said that the projects will support Wuhan’s urban layout and ease the city’s traffic congestion. A circle line with 37 stops starting from Wuchang railway station tops the investment plan, which alone will cost US $8.66bn. The construction will run from 2019 to 2024. The intercity rail network in eastern Guangdong province, will facilitate connections between the cities of Shantou, Shanwei, Chaozhou, and Jieyang. Construction on three rail lines totalling 320km started construction in 2018, with work on four others totalling 140km will start “at the right time”, according to the NDRC. Seven urban rail transit lines, including the extension of three existing lines and four new lines, are due to be constructed in Changchun from 2019 to 2024. The north of China is home to almost 50 percent of China’s population but has only about 20 percent of the country’s water resources. To remedy this imbalance, China has funded the construction of three huge canals, each more than 600 miles long and will carry water to the north from China’s three largest rivers. The project has a 48-year construction schedule. When completed, it will supply 44.8 billion cubic Beijing International Airport will eventually surpass Dubai’s Al Maktoum International Airport in cost, total square miles, and passenger and plane capacity. The airport’s first phase was completed in time for the 2008 Olympiad. Further expansion is scheduled for completion by 2025. Terminal 1, designed by the architect Zaha Hadid, incorporates a number of sustainable design concepts in a futuristic building envelope.