Infrastructure construction works at the Mohammed bin Rashid city (MBR) in Dubai, United Arab Emirates (UAE), home to Azizi’s Riviera is in good progress. The infrastructure developments comprise road sidewalks, drainage and water systems, backfilling, substantiation and more. According to Mohamed Ragheb, Executive Director – Engineering Division at Azizi Developments, the company is excited to see the infrastructure works progressing at such a rapid pace, with Riviera, the companyis flagship master planned community, visibly coming to life. “This milestone signifies a turning point: the project is manifestly evolving into a functioning, well-designed and liveable city comprising vast numbers of homes, retail units, and recreational facilities, instilling a true sense of accomplishment and pride in all of us,” he said. Recently, Property Monitor reported that in 2019, MBR City had experienced the highest sales volume of residential apartments in Dubai, with 3,361 units sold, surpassing all other major areas and making it the most sought-after residential destination in the city. Also Read: Planning for mixed-use scheme project in Birmingham, UK submitted Riviera, a stylish waterfront-lifestyle destination located in the heart of MBR City, is planned to comprise 71 mid-rise buildings with approximately 16,000 residences that are conveniently located in the midst of all the business, leisure and retail hubs of the city. Designed to introduce the French-Mediterranean lifestyle to Dubai, which is not merely about architectural art but also about a certain ‘joie de vivre’ — a celebration of life, an exultation of spirit, Riviera represents a new landmark. The homes offer spectacular views of the city’s skyline and ensure generous space, spread across three districts: an extensive retail boulevard, a canal walk with artisan eateries and boutiques, and Les Jardins — a lush-green social space. The first phase of Riviera comprises 3,589 residences across 18 towers, consisting of 2,461 studios, 935 one-bedroom, 111 two-bedroom, and 82 three-bedroom units, most of which are projected to be completed in 2020. Phase 1 has a total built-up area of 375,541 sq. m and a total gross floor area of 180,854 sq m.