The D’Arc Regional Water Treatment Plant forms part of the larger US$1.6b Bois D’Arc Reservoir and Regional Water Supply Project by the North Texas Municipal Water District. The project will supply 70 million gallons daily (MGD) initially to customers in North Texas – one of the nation’s fastest-growing regions. The project consists of 1.1 million yards of mass excavation to construct a 262,000.00 SY, 7.6 million gallon raw water storage reservoir, 1. 9 miles of 96” & 90” steel raw water line and 8,000 LF of associated yard piping. The reservoir will be lined with the latest technology geomembrane and HDP liner covered in 12” soil cement. Read also: Top water treatment plant manufacturers Rapid International Ltd recently commissioned a new Rapidmix 400CW, fully weighed, mobile continuous mixing plant (pugmill) for Thalle Construction Company (A Tully Group Company) in Leonard, Texas. The new Rapidmix is being utilized for the production of high volume structural concrete and soil cement on the US$37m project to construct raw water storage for the Bois D’Arc Regional Water Treatment Plant. Thalle required a mixing solution with the flexibility to produce both high and low slump concrete at volume in one machine. With a proportionally higher volume of soil-cement required (over 100,000 CY versus 6000 CY of structural concrete), the decision was taken to adapt the Rapidmix mobile continuous mixing plant, specifically designed for semi-dry mixes, to enable the production of higher slump structural concrete. The adaptation involved running a water line with admixture ports directly into the discharge hopper and installation of a shooting port with 18” discharge pipe and trunk, allowing the plant to operate in its normal manner. Final mixing is subsequently accomplished in the truck. Robert Farrow, Project Manager- Thalle Construction Co remarked, “The process has been very successful…” He continued, “Thalle has successfully poured in excess of 800 CY/ day of the structural concrete and looks forward to increasing our production on the soil-cement. The project is currently 4 weeks ahead of schedule and below budget.” The Rapidmix 400CW plant produces high quality controlled mixtures for utilization in a range of applications, including RCC (Roller Compacted Concrete), CTB (Cement Treated Base), soil stabilization, soil cement, bentonite, marine dredging, mine backfill and many more. The mobile nature of the plant combined with the technically advanced design is most advantageous in meeting the supply and demand requirements on projects. The Rapidmix provides a cost-effective solution for on-site projects where high specification compliance coupled with a high volume fast throughput are essential. Fully mobile and self-contained, the Rapidmix 400CW is a complete plant powered by its own power source, with on-board compressor and generator. Fitted with a self-erecting system, using hydraulics, the plant can change from travel mode to fully operational within a few hours. Available with outputs of up to 600 tonnes per hour, the Rapidmix provides feed rates that are fully adjustable for the aggregate, cement and water systems. 