Most innovative architects in Ghana have set out to respond to one of society’s greatest challenges: designing a world today that can adapt to a radically different tomorrow. From energy and power to healthcare, Ghana has a well-balanced range of projects that have broken ground. Also Read: Top ongoing mega projects in Ethiopia The following are top ongoing mega projects in Ghana Accra’s landscape will witness a truly world-class development when the top-of-range design of The Signature towers into the skyline in the coming months. The Signature, which is developed by CapeMay Properties, blends modern architectural and engineering concepts with a unique African design in a way that makes it both striking and inspiring.Marine Drive Project US $1.2bn The Marine Drive project, is a Public-Private Partnership project expected to transform the beachfront stretch from the Osu Christiansborg Castle to the Arts Centre into a vibrant business and commercial enclave that will transform the coastal city’s skyline. The project which covers an area of over 240 acres began in june 2019.  The Ghana National Cathedral is envisioned as a “physical embodiment of unity, harmony and spirituality” .The Cathedral will be located on a 14-acre site adjacent to Osu Cemetery near Independence Square and the Accra Sports Stadium. Construction is set to commence in 2019.  Situated near the Cape Coast Castle formerly used in the trans-Atlantic slave trade, the new Cape Coast Slavery Museum is a careful response to this historic building and an engaging forum within which to understand and learn about Ghanaian history. The museum programme will address this heritage, while also exploring the influence of Ghanaian culture on the diaspora. Project Commencement date is unavailable.   The city’s 2000-acre development will include residential, office, industrial, commercial, leisure and hospitality space. It will be the first at the heart of the Western Region of Ghana, home to the country’s rapidly growing oil, gas and mining industries. This incredible project began in October 2013 and will be realised in three key phases over the next 10 years. The Petronia City project will unroll in 3 phases over the next 10 years. It kicked off in October 2013 with full acquisition of construction machinery and equipment. It was then followed by clearing of about 200 acres of the site as well as the access roads and service areas.