The development of 33MW Sage Draw wind farm in Garza and Lynn Counties, in the US state of Texas has been completed; developer Danish power company Ørsted has announced. The project which features 120 wind turbines is expected to generate enough electricity to meet the needs of 120,000 homes annually. The projects forms part of Ørsted’s plan to reach 5GW installed onshore capacity by 2025, and its completion brings the firm’s onshore operational installed capacity to 1.3GW. According to Ørsted’s executive vice president and CEO of Onshore business Declan Flanagan, the safe completion of Sage Draw amidst the escalating COVID-19 crisis is a testament to the resilience and adaptiveness of the Ørsted team and key project partners at Blattner Energy and GE Renewable Energy as well as financial partners, GE Energy Financial Services and BHE Renewables. Also Read: Construction of 250MW Amadeus wind farm in Texas, US in good progress “I am therefore very proud of the Ørsted team and our partners on this project who’ve done an excellent job with another safe, on-time, on-budget project delivery,” he said. He further added that completion of this project underscores the significant role renewable energy can play in continuing to build our economy as we manage through and beyond the current crisis. The Ørsted vision is a world that runs entirely on green energy. Ørsted develops, constructs and operates offshore and onshore wind farms, solar farms, energy storage facilities, and bioenergy plants, and provides energy products to its customers. Ørsted ranks number one in Corporate Knights’ 2020 index of the Global 100 most sustainable corporations in the world and is recognised on the CDP Climate Change A List as a global leader on climate action.  The company is headquartered in Denmark, and employs 6,500 people. Currently, Ørsted has an additional 0.8GW of onshore wind, solar, and storage projects under construction and scheduled to commence operations in late 2020 and early 2021.