Economic megaprojects have been a main characteristic in Egypt.  A series of infrastructure with support from the International Monetary Fund, appear to be having a positive effect on the country’s overall economy. Also Read:Top ongoing mega projects in Ghana The following are top ongoing mega projects in Egypt Its landscape design proposes a balance between sustainable, low water use, native landscape and a green, shaded retreat. Construction of the entire project will be completed in 7 to 10 years’ time in 3 phases upon which there shall be a 350-bed state-of-art general hospital, clinics plaza, a hotel, and 11 specialized medical excellence centers. Furthermore, 10,000 to 13,000 job opportunities shall be created. The military base which is named ‘Berenice military base’ sits on a 150,000 acre of land. It located on the Red Sea coast along Egypt’s southern borders, approximately 90 km north of the Halayib Triangle, an Egyptian-controlled area disputed by Sudan. It features a naval base, an airbase, an army hospital, some combat and administrative units, and fields of shooting and training for all weapons. The Dabaa Nuclear Power Plant project will be the first nuclear power plant planned for Egypt and will be located at El Dabaa, Matrouh Governorate, which is about 130km northwest of Cairo. The energy project will be constructed by Rosatom in Egypt. The power plant is planned to be similar to Russia’s Leningrad Nuclear Power Plant, which has an installed capacity of 4,200 MW and supplying 50% of the energy consumed in Saint Petersburg and the Leningrad Region. The plant will have four VVER-1200 reactors, making Egypt the only country in the region to have a Generation III+ reactor. Upon completion, Dabaa power plant will have a capacity of 4800MW. The overall cost of the project is US $29bn out of which Russia will finance 85% as a state loan and Egypt will provide the remaining 15% in the form of instalments. The Russian loan has a repayment period of 13 years, with an annual interest rate of 3%. CSP is a type of renewable energy that uses the sun’s energy to process heat with temperatures of 400ºC to 1000ºC. CSP plants are large scale renewable energy infrastructures that use CSP’s to process heat that can be transformed into electricity or stored. The billion dollar project, includes the construction of five CSP power plants. Each single station is projected to cost approximately US $250m all of which will come from international and local lending bodies according to the SES’s chairperson. Up to 70% of the financing will come from international bodies while 10-15% will be offered by local banks. 4th terminal at Cairo International Airport The upgrade includes raising the efficiency of Terminal 1 to increase capacity from 6 to 10 million passengers. Upgrading the efficiency of Terminal 3 and its corridors should be done by 2020 and by 2030, the medium-term plan will be concluded. The project will be developed in three phases over a period of 10 years. It will include construction of 4-star and 6-star resorts and themed hotels, luxury homes, villas and high-rises; a wellness centre; high-end and regional shopping and dining; a VIP golf course and other recreational and green space activities and theme parks. The Entertainment District will also feature; cultural arts centre, convention centre, aviary, butterfly, topiary and botanical gardens/conservatories, planetarium, museum and recreational activities for children, sports and concert stadium, Formula One racetrack and an entertainment college. 