Construction of the Keystone XL Pipeline in the United Sates is set to begin after TC Energy announced that it will proceed with construction. The project will see an investment of US $8bn in the North American economy. At 1,210-miles (1,947-kilometres) in length, the Project will be capable of safely delivering 830,000 barrels per day (Bbl/day) of crude oil from Hardisty, Alberta to Steele City, Nebraska where it will connect with TC Energy’s existing facilities to reach U.S. Gulf Coast refiners to meet critical needs for transportation fuel and useful manufactured products. With pre-construction activities underway, the pipeline is expected to enter service in 2023. According to Russ Girling, TC Energy’s President and Chief Executive Officer, the company appreciates the ongoing backing of landowners, customers, Indigenous groups and numerous partners in the U.S. and Canada who helped secure project support and key regulatory approvals as this important energy infrastructure project is poised to put thousands of people to work, generate substantial economic benefits and strengthen the continent’s energy security. “During construction, we will continue to take guidance from all levels of government and health authorities to determine the most proactive and responsible actions in order to ensure the safety of our crews and community members during the current COVID-19 situation. Construction will advance only after every consideration for the health and safety of our people, their families and of those in the surrounding communities has been taken into account,” said Girling. The Project is underpinned by new 20-year transportation service agreements for 575,000 Bbl/day with a group of strong, credit-worthy counterparties which are expected to generate approximately US $1.3bn of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) on an annual basis. In addition, once the Project is in service, current contracts for 115,000 Bbl/day from Hardisty to the U.S. Gulf Coast on the existing Keystone line will shift to the new facilities under renewed 20-year contracts. Subject to terms and conditions outlined in the agreements, 50% of any difference between the estimated capital cost and final cost of the Project are subject to a sharing mechanism and will be reflected in the pipeline tolls. Also Read: Completion date of OB3 gas pipeline project in Nigeria pushed to 2021 As part of the funding plan, the Government of Alberta has agreed to invest approximately US $1.1bn as equity in the Project, which substantially covers planned construction costs through the end of 2020. The remaining capital investment of approximately US $6.9bn is expected to be largely made in 2021 and 2022 and funded through the combination of a US $4.2bn project level credit facility to be fully guaranteed by the Government of Alberta and a US $2.7bn investment by TC Energy. The Company’s capital investment will be funded through a combination of internally generated cash flow, hybrid securities and common equity through the activation of its dividend reinvestment program in 2021 and 2022. To provide additional financial flexibility in support of its credit metrics and capital program, including the Project, the Company intends to also file a US $1.0bn equity shelf to enable an at-the-market equity issuance program which will be utilized if and as deemed appropriate. Once the Project is completed and placed into service, TC Energy expects to acquire the Government of Alberta’s equity investment under agreed terms and conditions and to refinance the US $4.2bn credit facility in the debt capital markets. “Strong commercial and financial support positions us to prudently build and fund the Project, along with our existing US $30bn secured capital program, in a manner that is consistent with maintaining our strong financial position and credit metrics,” added Girling. “Once completed, approximately 98% of the Company’s consolidated EBITDA is expected to come from regulated or long-term contracted assets,” he affirmed.