A new electrified powertrains research and development R&D center is set to be constructed in Tianjin China by Vitesco Technologies after the company signed a corresponding agreement with the Administration Committee of the Tianjin Economic-Technological Development Area (TEDA). Vitesco Technologies will develop technologies for hybrid and electric powertrains in the new R&D center, which is scheduled for completion in 2021. According to the head of the Electrification Technology business unit of Vitesco Technologies, Thomas Stierle, the company’s strategy is clearly focused on electrified powertrains. “As electrification pioneer we count on more than ten years of experience in electrification and we have a broad, highly attractive product portfolio. The new center in Tianjin further expands our development capacities right in the center of where we expect the biggest electrification growth over the next years,” he said. Also Read: New automotive innovation centre to be constructed in Singapore The new complex has a gross floor area of 9,000 square meters. In addition to an office, it will include a test lab where electric drive technologies can be tested and validated with a wide array of advanced test facilities. Tianjin is already one of the most important locations in China for Vitesco Technologies. The company operates a plant with highly automated production lines that allow large volumes to be built to the highest quality standards. The new R&D center comprises systems, software, electronics, mechatronics and testing engineers as well as supporting functions and attracts talents from all over of the world. Yanfei Cao, head of the Electrification Technology business unit in Asia said that the new R&D center in Tianjin is another milestone for Vitesco Technologies. “It will help us to forge even closer links to local customers in the world’s largest automotive market and enable us to optimally support our customers in the development of vehicles with electrification technologies,” he said. The new R&D center closely operates in conjunction with the R&D center in Shanghai.