A 270-unit high-rise apartment community is set to be developed at 1899 McKinney Avenue in Dallas by Austin-based Rastegar Property. The units will feature fully equipped kitchens and washers and dryers. The amenities will include storage lockers, a pool, rooftop terrace and common areas on each floor. The 270-unit high-rise apartment in Dallas will also feature North America’s tallest living wall with over 40,000 estimated plants making up the structure. Rastegar has contracted San Francisco-based hospitality firm Sonder to operate the property, which is expected to be complete by early 2023. The agreement with Sonder represented the largest deal to-date for Sonder, a leader among hospitality brands targeting travelers and renters who seek flexible, high-quality accommodations. All of the units will be purposefully designed and outfitted as entire living spaces with the comforts of a home, including luxury fixtures and appliances, fully equipped kitchens, in-unit laundry and NoiseAware technology. Guests will also have access to a wide array of property amenities including storage lockers on every floor, check-in services, subgrade parking, defined rideshare pickup/drop-off zones, valet parking, a pool and rooftop deck, and common areas on each floor. Also Read: Phase one of high-rise residential precinct in Waterfall City South Africa launched Rastegar Property is a technology-enabled real estate company specializing in recession-resilient commercial property. The company’s mission is to deliver passive income and capital appreciation through tax-efficient strategies and transparent policies. Rastegar Property is currently developing over 4.9 million square feet, specializing in recession-resilient commercial property classes. They seek out unique opportunities to add value with less risk through renovation of existing multi-family buildings. To help control costs, the company also provides comprehensive property management services and uses the latest data and technology to better research opportunities, manage risk and control costs. 