Selecting the right forklift is a necessity in businesses that deal in import and exports of goods, moving goods in warehouses in the construction sector. But a big problem that these businesses face is selecting the right forklift that is the most appropriate for each use. When it comes to Selecting the right forklift buyers make a lot of mistakes that can lead to further problems rather than solutions. To avoid common mistakes then there are certain criteria that the buyers have to keep in mind before striking the final deal. Different kinds of folklifts are best suited for specific use. One size does not fit all. Some businesses deal in smaller items and a relatively modest-sized forklift will be best suited. But in the construction industry often the machinery requirement reads big so does the use of the forklifts and other trucks associated with it. Also Read: Hiab launches new tail lifts and truck-mounted forklift Spaces in which the forklift is to be used in the warehouses, storage places, and other industries also play an important role to determine which kind of forklift is better. Sometimes the spaces between two shelves are very narrow; so a broad forklift is not the one to choose. Before buying assess the space between which the forklift has to be operated. The specification of any decent forklift is mentioned on a plate screwed permanently on the body. This plate has all of the information that buyers need to decide on the kind of forklift. You must consider the load that the forklift can carry. The info plate also has the data of the maximum height that the boom and the palate can reach to. In a warehouse the maximum height that can be reached is 20 feet. But there are other forklifts that can reach more heights like the telescopic forklift. There are basically two types of surfaces and terrains that forklifts have to run on. There is rough terrains that are mainly found outside and rocky grounds. The forklifts that you purchase from dealers like Have you ever thought as to why the forklifts have so many fueling options? The reason for it is that each type of forklift is used for different purposes and has to carry various loads. If the forklift has to carry extremely heavy loads then the forklifts are fueled by diesel. The time period of the working of the forklift determines the level of maintenance that the forklift needs. If the forklift is driven or operated longer than the recommended; then the repairs have to be done more often. You have to check the time duration of the working of the forklift. Tires also play an important part because different kinds of tires are fit for diversified purposes. Thick and heavy-duty tires are the best for tough jobs. The age of the forklift is important When considering a second hand folklift the date and period in which the forklift was manufactured has to be taken into consideration. The older the forklift is could present serious problems and also the cost to maintain and repair it will be higher than usual. So you must try to purchase a relatively newer folklift. Another point that becomes the criteria for selecting the right forklift is whether to buy the forklift or rent it? If the work that has to be taken from the forklift is temporary or seasonal then you have the choice of renting it. Otherwise, it is wiser to buy the forklift. Bob Bobby Park Truck and Equipment offer folklift for sale or hire. They have a wide selection;Three-wheel and four-wheeled counterbalance forklift; Rough terrain forklift; Side loader;Telescopic forklift; Order picker; Reach forklift trucks; Tuck. 