LED lighting is emerging as the leading green lighting source. Advances in LED lighting is making the technology more and more accessible for people who are looking for a little mood lighting and wish to get their “Green” on as well. The following are some of the top LED lighting companies in the world. Lumeno LED is a company that distributes of LED Lighting products in South Africa, including Lightbars, Spotlights, Vehicle Lights & Bulbs, LED Accessories and HID Kits. The company has managed to source high quality products from Germany, Korea, China and Australia and some of the products are manufactured locally and hold the Proudly South African status. The company has recently become the importers and sole distributor for a range of outdoor and 4 x 4 products and accessories. These are all available from most 4 x 4 fitment and accessory stores and leading outdoor camping and caravan outlets. Axolight is a lighting company with offices in Italy and in the United States, which designs and manufactures high-end decorative designer lamps, prevalent for indoor use.All Axolight products are made in conformity with international standards on the subject of human and environmental welfare. Every single Axolight product, whether included in the brand’s standard production or the result of a custom request is designed, developed, tested and manually assembled in the company workshop in Scorzè (Venice). Axolight designs and manufactures products in small, medium and large sizes. For each Axolight product, you can find out the sizes available by following the size indication: S, M, L, XL. Thorlux lighting are manufacturers, designers and suppliers of professional lighting systems since 1936 an extensive client be like Nigeria.. Thorlux is well known throughout the world and provides a comprehensive range of professional lighting and control systems for architectural, commercial, floodlighting, industrial, hazardous area and tunnel applications. Integrated Systems Technology Ltd are global pioneers in the delivery of smart, low voltage power and Ethernet(PaE) LED lighting project which is based in UK but serving an extensive client be like South Africa and Nigeria. The company designs and manufactures world leading, flicker free LED drivers, serenity LED lighting and control systems for intelligent buildings in commercial, architectural, entertainment, outdoor and amenity applications The IST team has considerable lighting and LED experience and has been working with LEDs for 20 years; they are the key innovators of advanced technologies used within the LED industry with over 20 international patents covering LED drivers, power design, optical systems. The company has built a strong reputation as pioneers within the SSL industry, with a strong focus on quality, service and delivery. Lumin Lighting is a fast-growing semiconductor lighting manufacturer in China. Lumin Lighting was founded on November 17, 2008. Since its founding, Lumin Lighting is committed to developing, manufacturing, and popularizing LED lighting products, helping people with energy-saving, carbon emission reduction, and maintainable development. Nowadays, Lumin Lighting has already been successful in providing quality LED lighting products and green lighting solutions to thousands of families, institutions, and communities worldwide. Lumin’s product lines mainly include LED panel light, linear light,LED downlight,and LED high bayLED Panel Light,LED Tube Light,LED Downlight,LED Outdoor Light,Lumin Lighting, focusing on lighting  solutions to the office, school,hospital,retail shop,shopping mall,warehouse,factory, exhibition hall, etc. Also Read: Why Africa is moving towards LED light bulbs Le- technika is a leading European developer and manufacturer of LED street lights and luminaries. The brand of LED luminaries and lights Luxtella include LED street lights, industrial high bay LED lights, LED solat street lights, Ornamental and Retrofiy LED lights and LED lights that can be used for public lighting of roads, bicycle tracks etc. the company prioritizes the quality of lightin products that they offer to their customers. Their products are made from the best components from premium suppliers. Salvi lighting Barcelona is present in the lighting world developing last generation lighting products for urban spaces. The company has consolidated its work in the Edition and production of public lighting elements and energy efficiency. Innovation, quality and design are three elements present in all the lighting products adding value, guaranteeing originality and longevity to our whole range of products. The quality department tests and verifies all materials, components, and finished products before coming to market. LED hero Lighting is definitely the greatest evolution in the lighting industry that the industry has not experienced since electric light got invented. The company brings for you LED Halogen Replacement Bulbs, LED Light Bulb and all kinds of LED lights that you may look for. They are Plant Growth, Reef and Aquarium; Automotive, Cars and RV; Marine, Boat and Yachts; Flashlights, Candles, Festivals, Decoration and Christmas; Home, Landscape and Industrial LED lighting. They are a wholesaler of LED lighting, working effectively as distributor of LED lights and are also supplier of LED light. LED lights are bringing a transition in the technology of lighting by bringing up new innovative concepts for where and how these lights can be utilized to better the lighting experience of people. Lumen pulse designs, develops manufactures and sells a wide range of high performance and sustainable specification-grade LED solutions for commercial, institutional and urban environments. While other LED lighting manufacturers have their roots in electronics or traditional lighting, Lumenpulse’s distinctive combination of strong industrial design and electronics know how has enabled the company to innovate ahead of its rivals and to offer more options for sustainable interior and exterior lighting. Their products embody a design philosophy that respects the aims of lighting specifiers and the needs of the end-user. The company designs and manufactures its durable, high-performance fixtures in families to ensure that they are simple to specify and configure. Its luminaires offer a ‘crayon box of options’ – myriad choices of optics, colours, accessories and finishes – that allow designers to solve all types of lighting challenges from small office interiors to large stadiums and resorts. ROVASI designs and manufactures architectural and commercial lighting solutions ranging from interior lighting fixtures to complex exterior fixtures. Since 1992 we design and produce luminaires that are ahead of constantly changing trends and demands, there are companies and professionals on five continents that place their trust in our products and count on ROVASI for accomplishing exciting projects. The company satisfies its customers and the users of the lighting fixtures that they manufacture and,likewise, all those who participate in the lighting projects: lighting consultants, engineers, architects, interior designers.