Electricity transformers are devices that modify electrical current and voltage levels from one circuit to another by the use of magnetic induction. The following are some of the top electricity transformer manufacturers and suppliers in the world: STD Transformator was established in 2009 at Adana, Turkey as manufacturer and service provider of Oil-immersed Power and Distribution Transformers combines a significant amount of transformer knowledge and expertise of some of the most respected and renowned Turkish producers and service companies of small, medium and large power transformers in one group. The company provides a wide range of electrical transformers within the perspective of understanding customer’s requirements & applications and strive to fulfill their present and future expectations as regards Quality, Delivery and Services. It produces various types of transformers of different power and voltage complying with international standards such as IEC 60076 and ANSI, BSI, IEEE, NEMA, TS EN 60076, IS:2026 with its registered ‘STD’ brand within the scope of ISO 9001, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001. Since it was established, STD company has aimed a controlled and steady growth and has a sustainable growth capacity offered by the vision of without compromising quality and customer satisfaction in all its services and products. IMEFY is a family business which has been manufacturing power and distribution transformers for almost 50 years and we have been exporting transformers for almost 30 years to over 70 countries. IMEFY has a young, dynamic and specialised team of more than 160 people who, day in day out, strives to be one of the world’s leading transformer manufacturers by offering the market quality, cutting-edge technology, reliability and advice tailored to our clients’ projects, offering them a quick service and high adaptability. At IMEFY we focus all of our R&D&I efforts on transformer manufacturing. Our three divisions – OIT, CRT and PT – design, manufacture and market our distribution and power transformers to meet the needs and requirements of our clients. We enjoy building a high-tech company with a strong international presence. Hughes Power System specializes in research, development, manufacturing, marketing and sales of medium voltage outdoor and indoor switch gear products. They offer their customers integrated solutions with innovative and reliable products suitable for different climates and installations worldwide. All their products are developed as 3D models and analysed by FEM methods (Finite Elements) and have multi-layer circuit board design for protection relay and control systems. The company performs tests in its own medium-high voltage and power laboratory in Väckelsång, Sweden. The indoor test network can provide 6 – 145kV and up to 1.5MV and can simulate all types of protection relay settings via a comprehensive network simulator system. ABB is at the forefront of the energy efficiency revolution and provides technologies along the electrical energy value chain that typically pay for themselves within a few years through lower energy costs. Transformers are key links in this energy value chain. The company is among the world’s largest maker of transformers, pushing the voltage barrier to unprecedented levels of 1100 kV DC and 1200 kV AC, and facilitating more power to be transported longer distances with minimum losses. Like at any of its numerous facilities across the world, ABB’s state-of-the-art transformers manufacturing and testing facilities globally are equipped with the latest and best-in-class processes and systems for design, manufacturing and testing. ABB produces Shunt Reactors up to 800 kV level, dry and liquid filled transformers and traction transformers. ABB is also a pioneer in manufacturing of Insulation Press Boards, Paper, Components & kits and High Voltage bushings. Also Read: Top solar energy companies in the world United Transformers Electric Company (Utec), a subsidiary of Bawan Holdings, was founded in 2001 as a limited liability company. Over the past decade, Utec has built a strong presence in the local, regional and international markets as a leading company in the field of manufacturing distribution transformers and switchgears. The company is a joint venture between “Bawan” and “Wilson Transformers”, a leading manufacturer of power and distribution transformers in Australia since 1933. Utec applies the most advanced industrial technologies, taking advantage of the technical cooperation agreement with “Wilson Transformers-Australia”. The company focuses its efforts on the production of a full range of modern electrical hermetically sealed transformers, integrally filled with oil. The company also works on designing and manufacturing custom-made products to meet the customer’s needs of various key sectors. In addition to maintaining its position as top leading supplier to the local Saudi Arabian utility and private markets, Utec-KSA is also exporting their products to around 15 countries covering all middle east, Africa as well as Europe (UK). KUMKANG TRANSFORMER is a manufacturer of Amorphous, Anti-pollution, Salt-resistance, High-efficiency and PAD MOUNTED transformers. They provide various capacities, which are needed by many customers for industrial or commercial purpose and products are designed to meet international standards. The company also provides NLTC(Off-load tap changer) and OLTC(On-load tap changer) which can be used inside or outside of buildings. Hyosung boasts to be amongst the world’s foremost technology in the field of heavy electrical equipment, which makes up the core of industrial energy. Hyosung Heavy Industries exports its products to many corners of the world, including Africa, North America, the Middle East, and Europe. The company is deemed highly valuable not only in the area of electrical power equipment such as transformers (up to 765kV 1500MVA/3phases) and GIS (up to 1,100kV 63kA) but also in electric motors and gears. In addition, they possess core technologies necessary for building the future electricity grid, including Energy Storage Systems (ESS), STATCOM, and Smart Grid, and based on them, we are determined to lead the era of low-carbon green life. Baoding Tianwei Baobian Electric Co., Ltd.(BTW), originated from Baoding Transformer Works founded in 1958, is one of the largest manufacturers for power transformers and modernized high technology power equipment in China. BTW’s offer product 1000MVA,1000kV single phase auto transformer in China’s first 1000kV transmission line, has been in operation successfully since end of 2008. The company prides itself to having created lots of records for pilot projects with “No. 1” in the development history of transformers, such as the first 1000MVA/1000kV ultra-high voltage transformer, the first 720MVA/500kV three phase transformer, the first 400MVA/500kV nuclear station transformer and the first 1140MVA/525kV three phase GSU transformer matching with 1000MW super critical power generation units. Another remarkable achievement the company has done installing their 1000MVA,1000kV single phase auto transformer in China’s first 1000kV transmission line in 2008 and has since been successfully operating. ATS Transformer World was established in 2003 in connection with the production of three-phase and single-phase oil distribution and power transformers in a total area of 15.000 m2 according to the cooling system specified in ATS transformer of Adıyaman Organized Industrial Zone. ATS manufactures transformers in oil with special transformer needs of its customers. (Example: edemeyip TPAO, Turkey, USA currently offers only 260 kV substation and special order types that produce ATS in Turkey.)  Special type transformers and turnkey package systems with varying frequency according to the demands of the users are also produced within their structure. 