From March 10-14, 2020, K-Tec’s newest and innovative earthmoving scrapers and accessories will be on display at Conexpo – Con/Agg 2020 outdoor Festival Grounds in booth F2932. Booth attendees will enjoy a fully immersive earthmoving experience at K-Tec’s 10,000 ft² (929 m²) space. Nine prominent earthmoving machines will be showcased around the perimeter of the booth: K-Tec is pioneering the first pull-pan scraper telematics system on the market. This revolutionary technology allows for real-time K-Tec earthmoving jobsite performance information linked to the office via cloud software dashboard. The contractor will be able to view daily average cycle times and volume of material moved to provide confidence in the efficient K-Tec scraper fleet. On the front of the EST, the K-Tec Ox Block is a pusher block designed for push-loading scrapers for maximum capacity and decreased time in the cut zone; which improves productivity. The K-Tec Tricerabox is a 14’ wide box blade that is mounted to a 3-point hitch. The Tricerabox has a hydraulically operated seven shank ripper for breaking up hard soil or aerating wet job sites. K-Tec will have hourly product demonstrations to cycle the scraper hydraulics as an in-booth education opportunity, along with a Virtual Reality (VR) experience for operator attendees to simulate the smooth scraper ride and machine controls. K-Tec’s fully carpeted F2932 booth space will have a centralized covered structure, complete with a comfortable earthmoving video lounge seating. Furthermore, contractors can now reserve a meeting room appointment to speak with an earthmoving scraper specialist about the solutions available for specific applications and to analyze their current earthmoving equipment fleet performance with the K-Tec massive advantage. About K-Tec Earthmovers Inc. K-Tec Earthmovers Inc. believes they have developed the most profitable, productive way to move material. Founded in 2000, K-Tec provides its customers with premium, purpose-built earthmoving equipment for purchase through their global authorized dealership network. Their offerings include Direct Mount, Train and ADT scrapers in a variety of model specifications to fit any construction project. K-Tec’s growth is attributed to a strong product, after-sale services and their industry-leading warranty policies.  