Elkon is one of the world’s leading concrete equipment supplier. Aiming at innovation and the use of the most advanced technologies in production, ELKON offers a wide range of mobile, compact, stationary and on-site concrete plants as well as towable concrete pumps, concrete recycling systems, cement silos, cement feeding systems and concrete block making machines to meet the needs of customers in different geographies. In addition, they also design and build tailor-made precast concrete plants and overhead concrete transport buckets and ground buckets for production of concrete blocks, paving stones, pipes, hollow concrete, columns, beams, such as precast products that businesses need. Construction Review Magazine had an exclusive interview with ELKON’s EMEA Region Sales & Marketing Director, Serkan Özkan regarding their activities in Africa. ELKON is the largest concrete batching plant supplier in Africa with more than 700 units installed on the continent. Besides the leading construction and ready-mixed concrete companies of the world, the biggest companies of the continent prefer ELKON equipment in their projects. ELKON becomes local in Africa with its service centers and spare parts warehouses in Nigeria, Ethiopia, Egypt and Algeria and provides service and spare parts supply to the whole continent as soon as possible. To mention a few of these companies, Dangote, the continent’s leading holding company, has totally 7 ELKON concrete plants in Nigeria, 4 of which have started to operate for Africa’s largest refinery Project in recent months. The French cement and ready-mixed concrete giant Lafarge uses 5 ELKON concrete plants in Kenya, Cameroon and Rwanda. Austria-based Strabag, which ranks 5th in ENR’s 2019 Top 250 International Contractors list, has used ELKON products in Europe, America and Asia, then chose ELKON concrete plant again in 2019 for the Thiba dam project in Kenya. Another member of ENR’s Top 250 list, the French construction company, EIFFAGE uses 6 concrete plants from ELKON in Ghana, Togo and Congo. With its innovation-oriented structure and the R & D Center with the experienced engineers, ELKON sets trends in the concrete batching industry today. ELKON products are constantly developing with customer and project demands. Keeping up with this change and providing products that meet the demands of customers in different markets, ELKON products have reached to 126 countries all over the world. ELKON covers the the full range of requirements from very smallest to giant construction projects. Starting from ELKON Mix Master-30 concrete batching plant on-site type concrete batching plant that offer the opportunity to produce concrete even in very small projects with its low investment cost and goes up to big concrete plants with 480 m³/h to provide concrete for huge dams, airports, refineries, etc. projects where millions of cubic meters of concrete are required to be produced. ELKON has started to expand in Africa with the ELKOBLOCK series block making machines it has recently added to product range. So far, various types of block making machines have been installed in the Ivory Coast, Sierra Leone and Djibouti. With local offices and teams we provide on time technical assistance and quick spare part supply. Africa has always been an important region for ELKON. We will continue to provide the most suitable products for this region according to the changing market conditions in the region’s development for better living conditions. In the period ahead, we will expand the portfolio of concrete block and paving machines to produce concrete elements such as interlocking pavers, curbstones, hollow blocks etc.