Ghana has commissioned a US $764,112 accommodation block complex for the Engineers Training School of the Ghana Armed Forces (GAF) in Accra. The fully furnished, 128 students accommodation facility comprises of 16 rooms, dining hall and kitchen. The German government funded project is expected to resolve the accommodation challenge facing the school. The Defence Minister, Mr Dominic Ntiwul, expressed gratitude to the German government for the tremendous support to the school. “The school was facing accommodation challenges, which made all course non-residential, but with this edifice, the school can now comfortably accommodate all students who will come on courses with effects from the first quarter of this year,” he said. He further expressed hope that the facility would be able to house many students from the sub-regions and officers of the GAF to facilitate effective teaching and learning. “I also urge the school management to introduce more technical programmes as government prioritises technical education to equip the nation’s human resource to improve development. Also Read: Rwanda to build accommodation facility for cancer patients The German Ambassador to Ghana, Mr Christophe Retzalaff, said the German government was supporting the security architecture programme of some selected African countries to improve security intelligence and infrastructural development. “Since 2001, Ghana has become a major beneficiary of the programme in areas of infrastructure development and exchange programmes with Germany Armed Forces. Kofi Annan Training Centre, for instance, has benefited from the programme through the solid bilateral relations between Ghana and German,” he said. He further announced that the German parliament has approved three projects to support the infrastructure capacity of GAF, as Ghana remains one of Germany’s strong partners in Africa. The Commanding Officer, Engineer Training School, Lt Col Ernest B. Nyuur, said the school had trained many personnel over the years who continued to contribute their technical skills and knowledge acquired from the school. He added that the facility had played a very key role in providing technical training in areas of combat and constructional engineering to all ranks and civilian employee.