A training centre for renewable energy is set to be constructed in Tanzania. The centre is part of the Eastern Africa skills for transformation and regional integration project (Eastrip). The project will be developed in the Hai District, Kilimanjaro region and will be rooted on the ashes of the Kikuletwa training centre, which depends on the Arusha Technical College (ATC). Dubbed ‘East Africa’s centre of excellence in renewable energy’ the project is being implemented with the support of the World Bank and will also benefit from the support of Norway, which injected US $9bn in 2014 in support of energy project. For five years, this support has made it possible to set up training in hydroelectric power in the Kikuletwa training centre, says the rector. Also Read: UK to invest over US $65.7m into renewable energy projects in Africa Upon completion, the centre will teach students in several technical fields including; providing training in the following areas: principles of operation and maintenance of hydropower plants, principles of design and maintenance of electricity transmission and distribution, programmable logic controllers(PLC) for hydropower engineers, and design, installation, service and maintenance of solar photovoltaic systems. Additionally, the government will expand the centre in order to increase the number of students it will be able to accommodate each year to 1,500. This strategy will enable Tanzania to train its technicians on site who used to have to go to Zambia or other countries for training, especially in hydroelectricity. The Eastrip is a programme, which is being implemented in the United Republic of Tanzania, Kenya and Ethiopia, aims to develop specialised technical skills in priority sectors, including transport, energy, agricultural processing, manufacturing and information and communications technology. The government also plan to open 42 technical training centres in other areas throughout the country that will offer courses in renewable energy among other courses.