SMT GB has been appointed as the official distributor for K-Tec articulated hauler scraper boxes on mainland Great Britain with immediate effect. “We are delighted to have been appointed as the official distributor for a product that complements our existing brand of construction equipment products,” says SMT GB’s CEO Nick Allen. “We have worked with K-Tec Earthmoving Inc for a number of years and this agreement formalizes our relationship with the Canadian based company. Their range of scraper boxes, designed to be pulled by articulated haulers, is compatible with most of the Volvo range of trucks and will add another dimension to our existing product offering.” Mike Palitsky, President and CFO of K-Tec Earthmovers added “We could not be happier to welcome SMT GB to the K-Tec family. During our visit to SMT’s head office in Duxford, we were extremely impressed with the team and knew immediately that a partnership of the two organizations would be a great fit. The marriage of Volvo ADT’s with the K-Tec scrapers has proven to be an excellent one and we are continuing to promote this very cost effective and efficient concept worldwide. This agreement solidifies K-Tec’ s expansion into the UK market and we are very proud to be partnered with SMT to position both companies for future growth.  We look forward to a long and successful relationship.“ K-Tec Earthmoving Inc currently offer four sizes of scraper ranging from 21.5m³ heaped capacity and a payload of 30.8 tonnes up to the largest with a 48.1m³ heaped capacity and payload of 68.5 tonnes. The 1237 model is also available as a Train scraper. The conversion from a ADT dumper body to a ADT scraper hauler takes approximately 10 hours with no modifications done to the dumper body and can be reversed in the same amount of time to make this a very versatile earthmoving solution. With the comfort and ride that the Volvo ADT offers and the cushion ride control built into the K-Tec scraper, this makes for a very comfortable and operator friendly environment for the operator. SMT GB will now be responsible for the sales and after-market support for the K- Tec range of articulated scraper boxes in Great Britain. “This is a very positive step forwards in terms of us being able to offer our customers a complete end-to-end solution in the bulk muck shifting sector,” says Nick Allen. K-Tec Earthmovers Inc. believes they have developed the most profitable, productive way to move dirt. Founded in 2000, K-Tec provides its customers with high quality scraper equipment and earthmoving accessories for purchase through their authorized dealers around the globe. Their offerings include Direct Mount, Train and ADT scrapers, and other earthmoving accessories in a variety of model specifications to fit any construction project. K-Tec’s growth is attributed to a strong product, after-sale services and their industry-leading warranty policies. K-Tec strives to provide leading edge earthmoving equipment for their customers to successfully and efficiently transform landscapes now and into the future.