The construction industry is rapidly shifting its focus towards sustainability and eco-friendly practices, as business leaders in the sector are quick to realize the long-term potential of investing in the environmental movement, and adopting sustainable solutions. Not only are green construction methods, green properties, and eco-friendly features becoming increasingly popular with the new generation of aspiring homeowners, but there is also a lot to be gained by offering these solutions to the business sector. This is especially relevant to businesses operating in regions with increasingly-rigorous green construction codes, like China and the rest of Southeast Asia. Whether you’re developing residential or commercial properties, going green across the board can be significantly beneficial to your business as well as the client. Let’s explore the five strategies that will make the construction industry more sustainable and eco-friendlier in the years to come. Demolition is a big part of the construction industry, as ironic as that may sound, simply because there are many property development projects that have to be built on land that already has some sort of building present. Sometimes, investors will choose to keep the building and fix it up, but the building will often have to be torn down in order to realize a completely new construction project. In that case, construction companies can actually capitalize on reusing and repurposing old construction materials. Rather than dumping construction materials like steel, concrete, and everything in between into landfills, you can use these materials and repurpose them towards other construction projects and processes, which will allow you to reduce the environmental impact, generate financial savings, and make good use of specialized machinery. But it’s not just about the construction materials, it’s also about reusing, recycling, and repurposing decorative resources like carpets, flooring, and ceiling materials to cut costs and create a more sustainable construction operation. Investors and end-point customers (like homebuyers and commercial property tenants) are looking for sustainable homes and commercial buildings that were developed with environmentalism in mind from the ground up. What’s more, governments are increasingly implementing eco-friendly and sustainable construction rules and regulations, so all the more reason for construction companies to start using eco-friendly materials for every project. While it might not be easy to make this transition overnight, it’s certainly doable over the course of a few short years. Utilizing sustainable construction materials such as precast concrete, recycled wood and metal, cork and bamboo, and sheep’s hide for insulation purposes opens numerous doors for a growth-oriented construction company that’s looking to save money and create safer and healthier spaces for the customer. Needless to say, using these and other materials will greatly appeal to modern investors, and help generate a positive ROI for all interested parties. There are many stages to a property development project, and it’s interesting to note that in recent years investors have started to focus on the concept of “impact investing” in which the entire project is centered on the impact that the property and its development process are going to have on the environment and the local populace. One of the best examples of this trend currently is Indonesia, a rapidly-developing country where firms such as Invest Islands are working closely with investors, architects, and construction companies to facilitate the development of sustainable properties and allow eco-friendly construction to take place in order to support the environmental cause and generate a higher ROI for everyone involved. This trend is becoming increasingly popular across the globe as well, simply because of the benefits that impact investing and this type of collaboration bring to the table. Eco-friendly construction is not just about using sustainable building materials, it’s also about developing the full eco-friendly potential of the land that the building is being erected on. It’s important to note that tenants and buyers will be looking into the state of the land as a part of their property screening process, so all the more reason to prevent land degradation by using construction methods that don’t harm the environment and are able to conform to the requirements of the landscape. It’s also important to integrate green spaces and multipurpose areas into the design of the property in order to attract the eco-conscious generation of buyers. It used to be that building materials were hauled over great distances from the manufacturer to the construction site, however, nowadays we are seeing a shift towards locally-sourced resources that not only cut time waste, but make for a smoother and faster construction process. In turn, choosing locally-sourced materials from local manufacturers will cut the carbon footprint of the entire project, and even open numerous doors for construction companies looking to expand their network of suppliers across the country. The construction industry is adopting sustainable and eco-friendly solutions across the globe, and it’s easy to see why. With these solutions and insights in mind, you will be able to expedite numerous processes, reduce waste, generate financial savings, and attract the right customers to your business.