Renovation works on the Executive Mansion, the official home of the president of Liberia is set to be completed at the end of this year. The renovation of the Mansion is as a result of an unfortunate fire incident that occurred about 14 years ago during the first term of his predecessor Mrs. Ellen Johnson – Sirleaf. Delivering his third State of the Nation Address on Capitol Hill in Monrovia, President George M. Weah said that, his administration is determined to bring to an end the protracted period of renovation, by ensuring the full restoration of the Executive Mansion by the end of this year. “50% of the renovation works has been done, and all of the modalities are being worked on as the government provides the needed resources required to complete the Mansion’s renovation works,” he said. The former president ran her office for two terms in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, where President Weah also took off from two years ago. Also Road: Construction of PAPU headquarters building in Tanzania kicks-off Late last year, a house special investigative committee appointed to investigate the renovation of the Executive Mansion tabled a report indicating massive misconduct on how the renovations are being carried out. The 7-man Special Committee chaired by Grand Gedeh County District #2 Representative George S. Boley, in its report, said to date, 14 years after the fire incident which occurred on July 26, 2006, the Executive Mansion remains unusable. The renovation is incomplete and artifacts of historic significance preserved at the Executive Mansion before and after the armed conflict, have not been found and are yet to be accounted for. It also said that the Executive Mansion’s renovation project is a complex web of apparent collusion by individual actors at practically all levels of governance, and that no one has been held accountable for his or her conduct in the misapplication of the national resources expended, to date for the 13-year-old ongoing project of the Executive Mansion.