Construction works on Kunzvi Dam project in Zimbabwe is set to commence this year. Mashonaland East Provincial Affairs Minister Aplonia Munzverengwi made the revelations and said feasibility studies on the project is complete. The Provincial Affairs Minister also pointed out that US $259m has been allocated for the project in the 2020 National Budget. Overall cost of the project is US $680m. “We expect the construction of the dam to start this year after Government committed to funding the project. The project was in line with the devolution exercise, which was expected to change the face of the surrounding communities, the province and the country at large,” she said. Construction of the Kunzvi Dam that is expected to end the water woes will be constructed at the confluence of the Nora and Nyaguwe rivers in Goromonzi district and falls in a different catchment area from Chivero, Manyame, Seke and Harava dams that draw their water from the Manyame River. Also Read:Memve’ele dam in Cameroon to be fully operational by December The project will be constructed by Chinese firm, Sino-Hydro will be located about 70 km north-east of the city under a build, operate and transfer arrangement and is expected to produce 250,000 cubic meters of water for the city daily. The project will consist of construction of a dam, laying a pipeline and building a new waterworks. As early as the 1990’s, the government had intended to build the dam but financial challenges stalled the project. Construction of the Kunzvi Dam that is expected to end the water woes will be constructed at the confluence of the Nora and Nyaguwe rivers in Goromonzi district and falls in a different catchment area from Chivero, Manyame, Seke and Harava dams that draw their water from the Manyame River. Harare serves 2.5 million residents water and an additional 2 million residents from neighboring town requiring 1200 megalitres a day. The 4 reservoirs Harava Dam, Seke Dam, Lake Chivero and Lake Manyam located on the Manyame River greatly suffer from pollution. 