eval(ez_write_tag([[468,60],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3','ezslot_2',114,'0','0']));Electrosonic, a Californian audio-visual and technology service has completed construction at its production facility and regional hub in Dubai. Completion of the Electrosonic production facility aims to offer direct and enhanced local support to clients in the Middle East. It is also a strategic move and builds on more than 14 years’ experience in the Middle East. Electrosonic has been involved in designing and building projects in the region, including the world’s largest indoor theme park at Warner Brothers’ World Abu Dhabi, Ferrari World, corporate campus rollouts for Fortune 500 companies, and the world’s largest museum complex at the Sheikh Abdullah al Salem Cultural Centre. Also Read: Dubai nears completion on first phase of Heart of Europe. The new Electrosonic production facility is up and running from its outset, already completing the first system build for one of the Expo 2020’s most technologically advanced pavilion sites. The Electrosonic core resident team in Dubai has extensive experience in the region and plans to bring in more talent as part of a program to double permanent staff numbers. The new facility means that the company will no longer have to rely on production from the EMEA-UK facility, providing a faster, more responsive service to local clients, as well as reduced time for project execution. It is also comparable to Electrosonic’s production units in the UK and USA meaning it has the capacity to handle large-scale projects in the region with local resources. eval(ez_write_tag([[580,400],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-4','ezslot_3',115,'0','0']));Jon Hancock, the company’s CEO stated that he is “excited to see us being more strategic in a region where we have been present for many years. Now to have our own fully equipped permanent production facility is a great step forward that builds on our flagship projects in the region.” He also noted that it is the first stage in a more extensive program to create a single source for designing, building, and supporting great experiences in the region.