eval(ez_write_tag([[468,60],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3','ezslot_2',114,'0','0']));Construction of Rail Baltica Central hub in Riga, Latvia has officially begun on schedule. This marks a significant milestone as it will be the largest infrastructure project in the region in 100 years. The project includes a new central station building, a major railway bridge on the Daugava river, and various rail infrastructures. The project, financed by the European Union (EU) and the Republic of Latvia, will integrate the Baltic States; Helsinki, Tallinn, Riga, Vilnius, and Warsaw in the European rail network. The construction site was formally opened by senior representatives of Rail Baltica, the project implementer, and the supervisory team of the civil engineers. They welcomed the builders and congratulated them on the commencement of construction works. Also Read: Rail Baltic project exceeds budget estimations. The Central Hub in Riga represents one of the most important construction phases of the Rail Baltica Project. It includes the reconstruction of the Riga Railway Station complex, construction of a railway bridge across the River Daugava, construction of the European standard gauge tracks, removal of embankments and construction of an overpass, as well as construction of the adjacent infrastructure. BESIX is responsible for the design and build of it, as part of a joint venture with SIA RERE BŪVE. eval(ez_write_tag([[580,400],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-4','ezslot_3',115,'0','0']));Earlier, the JV BERERIX engineers successfully saw the complex design of the future railway station pass the wind tunnel and wind comfort tests and received the final approval for the master designs. The team is now eager to make the Rail Baltica project visible and tangible for citizens and guests of Riga, while strictly following all restrictive measures to curb the spread of COVID-19. The construction site is set up to enable continuous work and social distancing for about 100 workers employed on the site who are working day and night shifts. In order to meet all requirements, prevent carrying and spreading of COVID-19 on the building site, and to ensure a timely construction process of the Central Hub in Riga according to Xavier Debruche, one of the project leaders.