Construction of the Ntcheu-Tsangano road in Malawi is in good progress. The project has faced challenges in the past including financial constraints and complication of management structure which delayed the progress for almost eight months. Vice President Saulos Chilima recently toured the project and appreciated the progress being made by contractors, Malawi Defence Force (MDF) Engineers Battalion. He commended MDF Engineers Battalion for committing themselves to ensure that the 21km stretch would be completed by August, 2021. The VP noted that quality of works for the road has been very impressive and there was need to continue encouraging contractors to build roads to last long. “The Ntcheu-Tsangano road project provides an opportunity to improve economic status of the corridor since it connects Mwanza through to Blantyre,” he said. eval(ez_write_tag([[300,250],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-4','ezslot_0',115,'0','0']));He further added that the contractor had to overcome some challenges they were facing including the use of old equipment but now they have procured new ones which has helped improve progress. Chief Executive Officer (CEO) for Roads Authority, Emmanuel Matapa said the project involves the upgrading works from earth to bitumen standard of approximately 140km of road section from Biriwiri to Mwanza. He said the project would be executed in a phased approach with fist covering a distance of 21km from Biriwiri to Kambilonjo. Also Read: Construction of Njakwa-Livingstonia road in Malawi to be complete in a year “Once the road is finished truck drivers coming from Mwanza border would use the road as a short cut to Lilongwe unlike using the Zalewa road,” he added. The road project commenced on April 3rd, 2018 and was scheduled to run for 18 months until September 25th, 2019 but completion date was revised to November 30, 2020. The physical progress is at 55% with a contacting sum of US $12.6m According to Mapata the Ntcheu-Tsangano-Mwanza road would be constructed in conformity with international corridor standards. On the same tour, the VP hinted that new projects need to secure 80% of total funding before commencement if implementation time frames are to be achieved. According to the VP, most projects are missing deadlines due to financial constraints which need to be addressed if the country was to make progress. “We will not make progress if our projects continue to receive small portion of funding which has negatively affected the implementation of the road project,” he added.