Lifts are machines that make everyone’s lives easier and more convenient. It would be easier for people to go up or down the floors in an establishment. It would also make people with issues in mobility be able to move around more comfortably. Lifts are also not made just for people. They can be used to transport food and other goods.  The national average lift cost is $40,000. From this, a good estimate of the average range of prices would be from $35,000 to $45,000. The cheapest kind of lift would be the old styled cable driven lift. The most affordable estimated price for a cable driven lift would be $15,000. On the other end of the spectrum, the most expensive kind of lift would be a gearless traction lift or a pneumatic lift. They can cost up to $50,000. These prices only apply to houses or buildings with 2 floors. The more stories a building has, the more expensive the lift installation would be. This is because there would be more materials needed as well as more labor. Usually, the cost of installing a lift would go up by $10,000 for every additional floor to the 2 stories mentioned earlier. For example, a 2-story building would peg the lift price at $35,000 to $45,000. For a 3-story building, the price would be at $45,000 to $50,000. The two most common types of lifts are the hydraulic lifts and the pneumatic lifts. Having a hydraulic lift would not require your place to have a machine room. You would also have to replace the cable every 5 years. A hydraulic lift works by having a piston move inside a cylinder. This would then power the lift and control the movement. The entire power system would be situated inside the shaft. The controller would be relatively smaller than older models of lifts. It would fit inside a small, hidden cabinet beside the elevator itself. A hydraulic lift costs, on the average, about $20,000 to $50,000. The prices would vary depending on the brand of the hydraulic lift and the type of hydraulic lift to be installed. There are two types of hydraulic lifts: the holed hydraulic system and the holeless hydraulic system. The first type would need the cylinder to move down into the ground. The second one, on the other hand, does not need a cylinder to go into the ground. Because of this, only holed hydraulic system lifts would need to have a pit and thus, the place would need construction prior to installing the lift itself. The second most common type of lift is the pneumatic lift. A pneumatic lift is a modern type of lift that is eco-friendly and is very efficient in terms of energy use. However, you have to take note that a pneumatic lift is very visible and should be ideally placed out in the open. A pneumatic elevator works by using a vacuum tube that would pull the car or lift up and down. Compared to other types of lifts, a pneumatic lift is smaller and more compact. This, combined with its modern technology, makes the pneumatic lift the most expensive type of lift. A pneumatic lift’s average cost is from $35,000 to $50,000.