eval(ez_write_tag([[468,60],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3','ezslot_2',114,'0','0']));Super Nintendo World, a theme park under Universal Studios Japan has announced that they will be having a grand opening for the highly anticipated theme park in February 2021. The US$351 million dollar theme park began construction in June 2017 in Osaka and had planned to complete construction in time for the 2020 Summer Olympics, before both the event and the park’s opening were delayed to 2021 due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Universal Studios claims that the theme park will bring to life a highly themed and immersive land featuring Nintendo’s legendary worlds, characters, and adventures where guests will be able to play inside their favorite Nintendo games. Also Read: Lindt launches world’s largest chocolate museum. Super Nintendo World will feature Mario Kart- and Yoshi-themed rides and attractions, as well as restaurants, shops, and other experiences that can only be found at Universal Studios Japan. The new theme park experience offers colorful and interactive areas that let guests immerse themselves in the world by wearing a “Power-up Band”; an innovative technology to help bring gameplay to life and allow guests to keep score. Universal Studios Japan will have a Mario Kart theme park ride, Mario Kart: Koopa’s Challenge, as well as Bowser’s Castle. The interior of Bowser’s Castle has a mysterious atmosphere with stone walls, spiked fences, and heavy iron doors along with a massive stone statue of Bowser at the center of a grand staircase. eval(ez_write_tag([[580,400],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-4','ezslot_3',115,'0','0']));Thomas Geraghty, the senior director for innovation and global executive producer for Mario Kart noted that “the heart of the castle lies the world’s first-ever Mario Kart theme park ride based on the Mario Kart series of games, which have sold over 150 million units. Universal Creative has partnered with Nintendo to bring a real-life racing adventure to Universal Studios Japan with Mario Kart: Koopa’s Challenge. Guests will put on their headset which takes them through the Mario Kart universe to experience never-ending excitement and thrills.”