eval(ez_write_tag([[468,60],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3','ezslot_8',114,'0','0']));The African Development Bank (AfDB) is to disburse US$3.5M in support of the rehabilitation works of the Boali hydroelectric power station that is situated on the Mbali River in Boali, a town located in the prefecture of Ombella-M’Poko, in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). This envelope comes in addition to the first financing granted by the AfDB’s concessional loan window dubbed the African Development Fund (ADF) and which provides concessional funding for projects and programs, as well as technical assistance for studies and capacity-building activities. To be carried out by China Gezhouba Group Company (CGGC), a company based in Wuhan, China, this project requires an investment of US$5.97M, 59.16% of which is provided by the ADF and 40.84% by the government of the Central African country. Also Read: Cameroon-Congo: Studies for construction of Chollet hydroelectricity dam to begin in Q1 2021 The aim of the project is to increase the capacity of the Boali hydroelectric power station from the current 10 MW to 15 MW in the near future. eval(ez_write_tag([[250,250],'constructionreviewonline_com-box-4','ezslot_1',117,'0','0']));According to the AfDB, the new financing of US$ 3.5M will also enable updating of the feasibility study for an electricity interconnection project with the Central African Republic (CAR) and the electrification of nine localities in the DRC from the Mobayi hydroelectric power station. The project is planned to be carried out in two phases. Phase 1, which is currently underway, concerns the rehabilitation and reinforcement of production units, electricity transmission lines, transformer stations, and distribution networks. This will be carried out mainly in the CAR and partly in the localities of Zongo and Libenge in the DRC.  It is expected to be completed by the end of next year at an estimated cost of US$ 50.05M. The 2nd phase of this project will involve the installation of 110/132 kV transmission line linking the city of Bangui, the capital of CAR, to those of Zongo and Libenge in DRC. The project will increase the supply of electricity, mainly from hydropower, and increase the availability of the existing generating fleet.