eval(ez_write_tag([[580,400],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3','ezslot_1',114,'0','0']));The government of Gambia, through the Ministry of Fisheries, Water Resources and National Assembly Matters (MoFWR) has awarded a contract for the implementation of a drinking water project in The Gambia. The contract was awarded to Heloika Energy and it entails the drilling of 103 boreholes in the West African country at a total cost of approximately US$ 34M. Heloika Energy will implement the project in two phases. The first phase will see the construction of 50 large boreholes while the second phase will deliver 53 mini boreholes at an investment of US$ 19M and US$ 15M respectively. Approximately 150 communities will benefit from this project. Also Read: Construction works at Banjul-Barra ferry terminals in Gambia in good progress The drilling of these boreholes is a component of the Climate Smart Wash Development Project (CSRWASHDEP), which is under the MoFWR. The CSRWASHDEP’s main objectives are to increase access to safe, clean drinking water, and sustainable water supply. It also aims to provide sanitation and hygiene facilities to the targeted communities in The Gambia. eval(ez_write_tag([[336,280],'constructionreviewonline_com-box-4','ezslot_2',117,'0','0']));The beneficiaries of the project are residents of rural and Peri-urban communities, as well as deprived urban communities with poor waste management practices, whose environment is facing increasing climate change threats such as flash flooding and periods of extreme drought. As a mechanism for sustainable management of the borehole facilities developed under CSRWASHDEP, including the 103 mentioned above, the MoFWR has established Water Committees in all the beneficiary communities. The committees will be in charge of the management and proper upkeep of the facilities throughout the Country. Each beneficiary community, through their Water Committee, is required to open and maintain a Bank Account with a minimum amount of D25, 000 deposited on yearly basis for a period of 60 months. This money will serve as a fix deposit for future maintenance of the water facilities.