eval(ez_write_tag([[468,60],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3','ezslot_0',114,'0','0']));A new US $42,512.08 mosque is set to be constructed in the community of Diabugu Batapa in the Sandu District of the Upper River Region (URR), The Gambia. The Gambia-Angola Holding Group (GACH) under the leadership of Abubakary Jawara is sponsoring the project. The foundation stone laying ceremony was held over the weekend at Diabugu village in the presence of government officials in the region, religious leaders, students and officials of GACH and a cross section of the community. According to Mr. Jawara, construction of the new mosque is part of GACH’s efforts towards participating in the promotion of Islam in the country. “This is what I found my parents and grandparent doing. They have worked tirelessly in promoting Islam in the region and the country at large. Therefore, we must follow up in their footsteps in ensuring that their legacy is still in place,” he said. Also Read: Lagos Nigeria: Government to commission Peridot Parkland Estate in Idale He further added that The Gambia belongs to everyone irrespective of beliefs or ideologies. “The government can’t do everything for us, even if they are willing to do so, we thus need to partner with them,” said Jawara. eval(ez_write_tag([[580,400],'constructionreviewonline_com-box-4','ezslot_4',117,'0','0']));Muhammed Drammeh, the imam of the mosque, appreciated the GACH CEO for fulfilling his promise to construct a mosque for them. “I can tell you that almost every day I was afraid, especially when my students were going for prayers crossing the Laminkoto-Passamas road to go and pray in another mosque, which is about 1km from our area,” he added. The imam further added that the construction of the mosque would encourage others to be more serious about their five daily prayers and start worshiping Allah. He urged other philanthropists to emulate Mr. Jawara and participate in the promotion of Islam in the country. The mosque is expected to be completed in four to five months and it is being constructed by S.B Construction Engineering Company.