Over US$ 152M has been approved by the Federal Executive Council (FEC) for infrastructure projects in Nigeria-the North Central (NC) & North West (NW) zones. Particularly these funds concern the construction and rehabilitation of various roads in Kano, Kaduna, Jos, and Federal Capital Territory (FCT). The roads include the Yakassai-Badume-Damagum-Makinzali Road in Kano, Kaduna-Kanbegua-Jos Road. According to the Minister of Works and Housing, Mr. Babatunde Fashola, the contract for the construction of the Kano road has already been awarded to China Civil Engineering Construction Corporation (CCECC), while that for the Kaduna-Jos road was awarded to Setraco Ltd. The Yaba-Kpahe Road in Kwali/Abaji area in the FCT, whose construction is being carried out by Messrs COAN (W.A) Ltd for a set period of 12 months, will also benefit from the approval as well as the construction of one service carriageway of an inner northern expressway from Ring Road III to Ring Road IV towards Abuja Industrial Par by Messrs Salini Nigeria Ltd. eval(ez_write_tag([[250,250],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-4','ezslot_3',115,'0','0']));Furthermore, the council approved a memorandum for ratification of the Nigerian Road Safety Strategy (NRSS) II that is based on road safety management, safer roads and mobility, safer road users which according to Minister of State for Budget and National Planning, Mr. Clement Agba, “is very paramount, more important than the road conditions,” safer vehicles and then the post-crash care. Also Read: Niger: Maradi-Madarounfa-Nigeria border road inaugurated eval(ez_write_tag([[250,250],'constructionreviewonline_com-box-4','ezslot_2',117,'0','0']));In addition to the road projects, the council has also approved funds to support two aviation projects which include the expansion of the apron at Maiduguri Airport by Luvaslink Projects Limited, and the insurance of assets such as terminal buildings in 22 airports belonging to the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN). The contract for the latter was awarded to Zenith General Insurance Company and 19 other insurance companies.