The government of Nigeria through the Federal Executive Council (FEC) has approved the Ibom Deep Sea Port, paving the way for the project to move forward. Akwa Ibom State Government has commended the FEC for approving the construction of the Ibom Deep seaport project. In a statement issued by the Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Ini Ememobong, the state government appreciated President Muhammadu Buhari, Vice President Yemi Osibanjo, and members of the FEC. eval(ez_write_tag([[300,250],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-4','ezslot_0',115,'0','0']));It also commended the Minister of Transportation, Minister of State for Transport, the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA), Infrastructure Concession Regulatory Commission, Bureau for Public Procurement, and other officials of the Federal Government involved in the decision making. The Ibom Deep Sea Port (IDSP) project involves the development of a Greenfield Deep-sea Port and accompanying Free Trade Zone (FTZ) in Akwa Ibom State in the South-South geopolitical zone of Nigeria. eval(ez_write_tag([[580,400],'constructionreviewonline_com-box-4','ezslot_4',117,'0','0']));The proposed Port and FTZ are part of the proposed Ibom Industrial City initiative that will be established on a 14,400-hectare site donated by the Akwa Ibom State Government (AKSG). Also Read: US$152m+ approved for infrastructure projects in Nigeria The IDSP project is intended to become a major national and regional economic gateway that will provide additional container handling capacity for the West African country. In addition to containers, the IDSP is expected to handle petroleum products both export and import, crude oil, and natural gas mainly for export, vehicles import and bulk trade in natural resources for both import and export. The project according to Hassan Bello, the executive secretary at the Nigeria Shippers Council (NSC), the Ibom Deep Sea Port should be operational in 2021. The port is set to be the deepest in the West African sub-region upon completion, while the free trade zone will be the largest in Nigeria, covering six local government areas which are Ikot Abasi, Oruk Anam, Onna, Eastern Obolo, Mkpat Enin, and Ibeno. The total area designated for the zone covers 50,000 hectares.