eval(ez_write_tag([[468,60],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3','ezslot_0',114,'0','0']));Ajaokuta-Kaduna-Kano (AKK) Gas Pipeline project in Nigeria is set to receive a shot in the arm following the approval of a loan worth US$ 2.6bn for its implementation. This was announced by the West African country Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Zainab Ahmed, and Mele Kyari the Group Managing Director at the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC). The funds will be disbursed by the Bank of China and Sinosure, a Chinese export and credit insurance corporation. The two institutions are set to fund 85 percent of the entire project costs while the Federal Government, represented by NNPC, will provide the remainder, 15 percent, through equity. The Ajaokuta-Kaduna-Kano (AKK) Gas Pipeline project was flagged off in July this year by President Muhammadu Buhari. Mele Kyari announced that at the moment, the project which covers a distance of over 600 kilometers is approximately 15% complete and they are certain to deliver it on schedule. Also Read: Nigeria Liquefied Natural Gas: Discussions underway for construction of Train 8 “Despite the slowdown in economic activities, this project has not stopped even for a single day since it started about five months ago. We believe that we shall complete it within the stipulated time frame and within the estimated costs,” emphasized the NNPC Group Managing Director. eval(ez_write_tag([[580,400],'constructionreviewonline_com-box-4','ezslot_4',117,'0','0']));The project is being executed in three phases. The first phase covers a distance of 200 kilometers between Ajaokuta and Abuja, while the second and the third phases cover a distance of 193 kilometers and 221 kilometers, from Abuja to Kaduna, and from Kaduna to Kano respectively. Brentex/China Petroleum Pipeline Bureau-CPP Consortia and Oilserve/China First Highway Engineering Company-CFHEC Consortia were announced as the Engineering Procurement and Construction contractors for the project. The objective of the project The project which is reputed to be the single biggest gas pipeline project in the West African country’s history is expected to transport approximately 3.5 billion cubic feet of gas per day from the delta to power plants in the south of the country. The pipeline is set to eventually extend to the North Africa region.