eval(ez_write_tag([[468,60],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3','ezslot_1',114,'0','0']));The government of Uganda through the National Water and Sewerage Corporation (NWSC) together with Kampala Capital City Authority (KCCA), in partnership with non-profit organizations such as Water for People, the Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit GmbH (GIZ), Samaritan’s Purse and Amref Health Africa is set to construct a total of 50 toilets in Kampala Metropolitan Area. This was announced by Hon Betty Amongi, the Minister for Kampala and Metropolitan Affairs while addressing the media in the capital city of Uganda. The minister explained that every parish will benefit from at least 2 public toilets which are planned for construction mainly in public places like taxi and bus parks, markets, and areas such as the constitutional square among others. The Minister for Kampala and Metropolitan Affairs revealed that the project kicked off this month with the construction of 7 model public toilets in selected parishes in Central, Kawempe, Makindye, Nakawa, and Rubaga divisions. Also Read: New gravity water project commissioned in Bududa, Uganda “We are in the final stages of handing over the sites to the service providers. Procurement has already been completed for 40 toilets, with that of 10 more underway,” eval(ez_write_tag([[580,400],'constructionreviewonline_com-box-4','ezslot_3',117,'0','0']));“We know that in some of these areas, affording construction of a public toilet is difficult for some of the communities. Also due to the effects of Covid-19, many people especially in the slums have failed to meet the costs of emptying their toilets. The market price for emptying a 4,000 liters toilet for example is about Shs 100, 000,” she highlighted adding that this project is therefore timely. Hon Bena Namugwanya, the State Minister in charge of Kampala Capital City Authority said that they are going to help people with emptying toilets by assisting with the payments so that they will pay a lower amount. “We shall do so in 10 zones in Kawempe, 3 zones in Nakawa, 9 zones in Rubaga, 10 zones in Makindye, and 7 zones in the central division.” “If a person has been paying Shs 100,000 for emptying a toilet, they will now pay Shs 75,000 instead,” she concluded.