The first construction phase of the Agra Metro project, India’s first bullet train project, in Uttar Pradesh, was officially inaugurated virtually by the Indian Prime Minister, Narendra Modi. The central government of India outlined that it plans to allocate more than US$1.4 trillion for the National Infrastructure Pipeline Project. Work is also being completed on the Multi-modal Connectivity Infrastructure Master Plan. Prime Minister Modi stated that all these efforts were in line with the government’s objective to “attract investment from all over the world to improve the country’s infrastructure.” Also Read: India set to develop 1.8GW from floating solar power. According to an official press release by the government, the Agra Metro project will be comprised of two corridors that combine to make a total length of 29.4 km and will aid in connecting tourists to major tourist attraction sites such as Taj Mahal, Agra Fort, Sikandra with railway stations and bus stands. The project will not only benefit the 2.6 million population in Agra, it will also cater to over 6 million tourists who visit Agra every year. It will also provide an environment-friendly mass rapid transit system to Agra. eval(ez_write_tag([[580,400],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-4','ezslot_2',115,'0','0']));India’s first bullet train will cover 1 kilometre in two minutes. Thus, the distance between Sikandra and Taj East Gate will be shortened to just under 30 minutes, and travelling from  Agra Cantt to Kalindi Vihar will be shortened to just over half an hour whereas it would have taken an hour to travel to both places by road. Also noteworthy in the construction is the equipment that will be used for the alignment of the project. Alignment is crucial as the project will cover mixed terrains including densely populated urban and rural areas,  highways, roads, rivers and green fields. According to the National High-Speed Rail Corporation Ltd (NHSRCL), Light Detection and Ranging Survey (LiDAR) technique using laser enabled equipment mounted on a helicopter for a ground survey.