eval(ez_write_tag([[468,60],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3','ezslot_2',114,'0','0']));EnBW, a utility service provider in Germany has announced their plans to construct 300MW of solar from two solar sites and will be funded without public subsidies. The energy company will start building two 150 MW facilities in the Märkisch-Oderland district, Brandenburg, in early 2021. They are scheduled to complete construction 12 months after the start of construction. The two projects will add to the 187 MW unsubsidized solar plant that EnBW is already constructing on ​​164 Ha of land in Weesow-Willmersdorf, about 25 kilometers from Berlin. For these three projects, all options are open, including power purchase agreements (PPA) or spot market trading. The three PV power plants will together occupy around 400 hectares of space. Also Read: Northern Europe’s largest solar farm to be constructed in Denmark. All three of the solar sites in Germany will be constructed in line with a range of environmental protection measures, in order to promote regional biodiversity. EnBW said local seeds will be planted at the project sites, supplemented with trees, hedges, and bushes in the immediate vicinity. The three major photovoltaic projects that make up the solar cluster will save around 325,000 tonnes of CO2. The projects will result in the generation of environmentally friendly electricity for more than 140,000 households, equivalent to around 70 percent of all households in the Brandenburg districts of Barnim and Märkisch-Oderland. eval(ez_write_tag([[580,400],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-4','ezslot_3',115,'0','0']));‘What appeared to be unattainable just a few years ago has now become reality: Renewable electricity generation is possible without financial support from the German Renewable Energies Act (EEG). And this demonstrates that renewable energies can be competitive’, explains Jörg Steinbach, Minister for Economic Affairs, Labour and Energy in Brandenburg. ‘EnBW is contributing to the achievement of our energy and climate policy targets with projects such as the Weesow-Willmersdorf, Gottesgabe und Alttrebbin solar parks. In addition, the Minister welcomed EnBW’s plan to issue contracts for some of the work involved in the project to companies based in the region. ‘This project is adding value in the local region, something which unfortunately does not happen in other projects.’