There is an emergency of green buildings around the world. As climate change gathers a storm around the world, architects and developers are taking steps to mitigate the impact of buildings on the environment.  Engineers, architects, and scientists are turning to green buildings to reduce the impact on the environment and human beings. Green or sustainable buildings are called so thanks to their use of either renewable energy or adoption of eco-friendly materials or both. Below are the top 10 green buildings in the world;   eval(ez_write_tag([[300,250],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-4','ezslot_0',115,'0','0']));In 2019, Amherst College Science Centre was selected by the American Institute of Architects (AIA) Committee on the Environment (COTE) to be among the top 10 green buildings in the US. The new Science Center is designed to last more than 100 years and was announced the winner of the COTE Top Ten Awards.  The building also has a very good open learning environment for the whole campus. The building has been designed in a way that reduces energy usage by 76%.   Reforma Tower was completed in 2016 and is the second tallest building in Mexico with 57 floors. The skyscraper was designed by the LBR&A architectural firm and is considered a sustainability benchmark in the whole of Latin America. The building was awarded a LEED Platinum pre-certification for embracing highly efficient management of resources. Thanks to its sustainable features, the building is able to save 24% of energy and 30% of water consumption. The building also has a rainwater harvesting system and the harvested water is treated within the building. The building does not have a drainage system.   Corallo House is a residential building located in Santa Rosalia and covers an area of 747 square meters. The building was designed by PAZ Arquitectura and has been constructed in a manner that does not cause any disturbance to the surrounding trees. The building’s layout properly blends into the exterior environment, which is mainly a forest. The main aim behind the structure was to preserve the surrounding trees while constructing a livable space that interacts well with the natural environment.   Australia is known for having a number of green office buildings but Sunshine Coast University Hospital is the first healthcare facility to be awarded Six Star Green Star ratings for design and construction. The project was constructed at a cost of $1.8 billion and has been recognized as the best public building. This is after it was awarded the 2019 Rider Levett Bucknall/Property Council of Australia Innovation and Excellence Awards. The judging panel nicknamed the building sustainability superstar”. The hospital has been designed with a solar water heater, energy metering, energy storage systems, and efficient lighting. It has been designed to reduce the harsh summers and heavy rainfall as well as optimize access to sunlight.   The Whitepod Eco Resort is found in Switzerland and nestled in the snow-covered mountains. The resort was awarded the World Prize for Sustainable Tourism is mainly highlighted with innovative low-impact pods. The accommodation spaces are designed with a self-sustaining frame and heated with a wood stove. Other sustainable features on the building include LED lighting, timeouts for boilers, and water-saving devices.   Suzlon One Earth is the largest and first green office in India to be awarded a LEED Platinum rating. The building was designed by architect Charles Benninger and it was made in such a manner that 90% of the interior receives natural light. The building sits on more than 10 acres and is 100% powered by offsite and onsite renewable sources. It has 18 turbines constructed nearby which supplies 7% of the energy used. The rest of the energy comes from offsite wind turbines.