Gazpromneft-Lubricants that produces Gazpromneft premium engine oils is launching a global online campaign “Trusted by Millions” / #trustedbymillions which will reach users of the company’s products around the world! All Gazpromneft clients of engine oils are invited to take a photo of themselves with a canister of Gazpromneft engine oil in a pack from 1L to 20L at a retail point of sale, at a service station or next to a car and post the photo on their social media accounts (Facebook, Instagram or VKontakte). To participate in the promotion the post must be accompanied by geotagging and hashtags #trustedbymillions and #gazpromneft. The promotion will simultaneously take place in 50 countries of Europe, Asia, Africa, the Middle East and Latin America from November 30 to December 30, 2020. During this time an interactive map will appear on a special site which will unite users around the world and everyone will be able to find like-minded people in the choice of motor oil. eval(ez_write_tag([[300,250],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-4','ezslot_1',115,'0','0']));All participants are automatically included in the quizzes with prizes from Gazpromneft that will be useful on trips: smartphones, backpacks, suitcase covers, glasses, key rings, etc. The drawing will be held every week in three nominations: “Most Popular Photo”, “Best Review” and “Randomly choice winner”. Detailed information on the terms of participation can be found here eval(ez_write_tag([[580,400],'constructionreviewonline_com-box-4','ezslot_4',117,'0','0']));Taking into account the vast geography of the campaign the site will be adapted into 8 languages: English, French, Spanish, Greek, Bulgarian, Arabic, Vietnamese, and Russian. Gazpromneft oils are known in 86 countries around the world and protect millions of engines that gives confidence to drivers around the world. The use of high quality oils with the use of modern additive packages ensures guaranteed engine protection in different climatic zones. The company’s products have over 400 approvals and approvals from leading equipment manufacturers. About Gazpromneft –Lubricants Gazpromneft-Lubricants (Gazpromneft-Lubricants Ltd.) is a subsidiary of Gazprom Neft focusing on the production and sales of oils, greases and technical fluids. The company was established in November 2007. The products are manufactured at six production sites in Russia, Italy and Serbia. The company’s clients are the largest industrial enterprises, the product range includes 700 items of oils and greases for all sectors of the market (more than 2800 stock keeping units). The company also produces and sells marine oils. Gazpromneft-Lubricants controls 23% of the Russian packaged lubricants market and also operates in 86 countries worldwide. Gazpromneft-Lubricants products have over 400 approvals of the leading equipment manufacturers: KAMAZ, BMW, Mercedes-Benz, Volkswagen, Volvo, Renault, General Motors, Cummins, MAN, ZF, Bosch Rexroth and others.