Dodoma stadium in Tanzania which is expected to be the largest stadium in Africa, was proposed in 2017 after the Moroccan King visit to Tanzania, at an estimated cost of US $100m. The Stadium will be strategically situated at Nanenane area along Dodoma- Morogoro highway to make it visible to all passersby using proposed ring roads that will be running around the stadium and those using the Standard Gauge Railway (SGR) network which is close to the structure. The architectural design of the structure resembles the iconic Mt. Kilimanjaro, the tallest mountain in Africa, from outside. According to the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the Tanzania National Roads Agency (Tanroads), Patrick Mfugale the proposed mega stadium upon completion will have the capacity to accommodate between 85,000 to 100,000 spectators. eval(ez_write_tag([[580,400],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-4','ezslot_1',115,'0','0']));This number exceeds the 94,736 spectators that the First National Bank (FNB) Stadium, currently the largest stadium in Africa, can accommodate, and for this reason Dodoma Stadium is anticipated to take over FNB’s crown. The delivery of the new stadium will put Tanzania in a better position to bid for hosting major continental events such as the Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON), African Canadian Soccer & Cultural Association (ACSCA), as well as other top athletics events such as All African Games and World Athletics championships. eval(ez_write_tag([[580,400],'constructionreviewonline_com-box-4','ezslot_3',117,'0','0']));In May, Tanzania’s Minister for Information, Arts, Culture and Sports Mr. Harrison Mwakyembe revealed that the proposed Dodoma Stadium project has moved closer to the construction stage following the completion of seismic, topographical and feasibility studies which had to be repeated to ensure maximum safety of the structure and the spectators. According to Mr. Mwakyembe Dodoma city is prone to earthquakes and therefore his ministry had a huge task of conducting seismic, topographical and feasibility studies, which for accuracy purposes, they had to be repeated. He further added that the national government has already acquired land for Dodoma Stadium project, which is even more than the initial hectors needed. 