The Kampala Flyover Construction and Road Upgrading Project (KFCRUP) in Uganda is on track. The newly appointed Japanese Ambassador to Uganda His Excellency Fukuzawa Hidemoto toured the project recently and commended the work done so far and promised that he will ensure the project gets completed in time and within budget. He further called upon all the parties involved in its construction to promote a sense of teamwork which will expedite the construction works for the benefit of the people of Uganda. He also pledged to offer all needed support to resolve any challenges. Speaking at during the tour, Eng. Lawrence Pario, the UNRA Project Manager welcomed the Ambassador and thanked the Japanese government for funding various projects across the country including the already completed Source of the Nile Bridge in Jinja and the 35km Atiak-Nimule Road. He cited other upcoming projects such as the Yumbe-Manibe Road; New Karuma Bridge; and the Kibuye Busega Expressway which will interface with the Kampala Flyover project. He further appreciated the technology transfer assistance under which 14 graduate trainees have been guided and supervised by Japanese Team leaders. Also Read: US$ 71.5m loan approved for road projects in southwestern Uganda Eng. Pario mentioned a few challenges facing the project including the Covid-19 pandemic and the heavy rains which have delayed the work’s progress. He advised the contractor to devise ways of gaining lost time by extending working hours, transporting bulk material during the night, and mobilizing more equipment, material, and labor. eval(ez_write_tag([[300,250],'constructionreviewonline_com-box-4','ezslot_1',117,'0','0']));The Project Formulation Advisor of the Japanese International Cooperation Agency (JICA), Ms. Atsumi Kani who has also recently joined the Uganda office promised to work towards the success of the Kampala Flyover project during her tour of duty. The project is funded by the Japanese Government in conjunction with the Government of Uganda.