eval(ez_write_tag([[468,60],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3','ezslot_3',114,'0','0']));A US$250 million legal deal has been approved by the Board of Public Works in Maryland to continue and complete construction at the light-rail Purple Line project within nine months. The board that is composed of three members voted unanimously to pay the companies managing the construction to resolve delay-related contract disputes that began 3 years ago. The project that is about 40 percent complete is expected to take another three or so months to refinance the remaining work before construction would resume. Under the agreement, the firms will hire a new construction contractor within one year, although that is expected to take closer to six months according to the Maryland Transportation Secretary. Also Read: Singapore and Malaysia in talks over High-Speed Rail project The Purple Line was initially scheduled to be operational by March 2022, but the previous contractor said it wouldn’t begin carrying passengers until late 2024.  The light-rail project is 16 miles long and will extend from Bethesda in Montgomery County to New Carrollton in Prince George’s County. It will provide a direct connection to the Metrorail Red, Green, and Orange Lines; at Bethesda, Silver Spring, College Park, and New Carrollton. The line will also connect to MARC, Amtrak, and local bus services. The construction companies will receive the first US$100 million of the settlement by December 31. The state will pay the remaining US$150 million within 12 months, whenever the state and PLTP sign a new financial agreement after the contractor is replaced the secretary stated. eval(ez_write_tag([[336,280],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-4','ezslot_0',115,'0','0']));With the US$250 million settlement, the Purple Line partnership is now valued at US$5.84 billion. It is one of the first US transit projects to rely on private financing. The private financial partner, Purple Line Transit Partners, now consists of infrastructure investors Meridiam and Star America. A third company, Fluor, which also led the construction joint venture, will leave the partnership as part of the agreement.