For those working professionals who don’t spend eight to ten hours nestled in a cubicle, earning a paycheck can pose its fair share of safety risks. Based on insights from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, there are a few industries in the U.S that are especially hazardous. Some of these high-risk-occupations include truck drivers, logging workers, structural steelworkers, recyclable material collectors, and construction workers.  Construction is considered one of the most dangerous sectors to work. According to OSHA, of every 5,000 fatalities in the U.S, 20% are in the construction industry. Meaning, one in every five workers’ fatalities is construction-related. The top causes of construction deaths include falls, electrocutions, incidents where workers are caught-in-between or struck by foreign objects, i.e., loose construction materials. eval(ez_write_tag([[468,60],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-4','ezslot_3',115,'0','0'])); Fortunately, construction workers can take their safety into their own hands by following these safety precautions to a tee. Should you fall victim to construction site accidents involving a forklift and sustain life-altering injuries, despite your best efforts, contact an attorney like Schwartzapfel Lawyers. There are measures you can implement to help prevent common injuries on construction sites. Here are the 5 ways to prevent construction site accidents eval(ez_write_tag([[250,250],'constructionreviewonline_com-box-4','ezslot_1',117,'0','0']));To minimize the risk of injuries, you should always utilize your safety gear. Construction site accidents can happen even with safety measures in place, so the safety gear acts as additional protection.  Recommended personal protective equipment for construction workers include an apron, hearing protection, harnesses, safety footwear, hard hats, and eye protection. You may also need gloves and masks when handling hazardous chemicals. There’s a very high likelihood that your site supervisors have posted proper signage throughout the construction site where you work. In most cases, signs are highly visible and placed strategically where every worker can see them. ` Make sure you utilize the signs and always stay alert. In case of an emergency, you can use the cones and ropes to block off the dangerous area. For optimal safety, don’t forget to call for help if the situation becomes unmanageable. Carrying or lifting heavy items is one of the major causes of injuries on construction sites. To avoid straining your back muscles, use trucks or trolleys to transport supplies. However, if you must handle objects manually, ensure you’re lifting heavy things correctly. You can support your back using a back brace while you’re carrying heavy loads. Most construction site accidents occur due to fatigue. Remember that if you work for hours on end without a break to relax, eat, and hydrate, you’re likely exhausting yourself, increasing your risk of making critical mistakes that can result in workplace accidents. Although you may want to work during lunch or break hours to earn overtime or shorten the workday, you might be doing more harm than good to your health. Every construction site has its own written safety protocols. Without exceptions, construction company owners will mandate that all employees follow these protocols diligently.  This standard of operating procedure helps you understand the potential risks and hazards involved in the construction site and the protective measures required to keep you protected. Ensure you commit these guidelines to memory and abide by them from the moment you step on site. 