eval(ez_write_tag([[580,400],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3','ezslot_1',114,'0','0']));Wet wipes producer Nice-Pak has revealed plans to build a new production facility in Mooresville, Indiana, US. The US $165m facility is expected to house house both manufacturing and a distribution centre at a single location. According to Nice-Pak, its current facility will remain open and will be part of the company’s manufacturing footprint. Furthermore, apart from the new facility forming part of its efforts to meet the increasing demand for wipes and essential products due to the Covid-19 pandemic; It will also remain zero landfill as part of its “war on waste” which includes more efficient usage of energy and water as well as the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. Construction on the new 1.2 million ft2 facility is expected to commence in March 2021. Completion is scheduled for May 2022. The facility will be located at the intersection of Merriman Road and Bethel Road, 8km from the company’s existing 147,000ft2 facility at 1 Nice Pak Road. Also Read: Tesla plans to build world’s largest battery factory in Berlin, Germany Once fully operational, the new production facility is expected to employ approximately 800 associates and create 150 additional jobs in Morgan County by 2024. Indiana Governor Eric Holcomb said that the state is grateful that Nice-Pak has chosen to grow their Mooresville campus and create 150 new career opportunities for Hoosiers. “Nice-Pak manufactures products that are critical in our fight against COVID-19, and we couldn’t be happier to support their Indiana expansion. The company’s commitment to sustainability and corporate social responsibility is admirable,” he added. eval(ez_write_tag([[580,400],'constructionreviewonline_com-box-4','ezslot_3',117,'0','0']));The new production facility, designed by ARCO Design/Build in Indianapolis, is designed to use natural and LED lighting, low-flow water fixtures, eco-friendly landscaping, HVAC systems, low VOC paints and floor coverings, and a white roof to reject heat gain.