The government of Mozambique is set to build 49 new district hospitals in an effort to expand health network throughout the country; and bring better care to the most vulnerable population groups. According to the Health Minister Armindo Tiago, during the current government’s term of office from 2020 to 2024, the number of district hospitals will increase by 75%, from 65 to 114. This will provide 4,000 new hospital beds, and will provide greater access to emergency surgical care. “The building jobs are currently under way and others that will begin in this cycle of governance, involve the construction and equipping of 49 hospitals, which will benefit an estimated total population of 7.62 million people”, said the Minister while speaking at the opening in Maputo of a meeting of his Ministry’s Coordinating Council. eval(ez_write_tag([[580,400],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-4','ezslot_3',115,'0','0']));The minister further added that the government has identified innovative strategies for mobilizing state resources, as well as the establishment of public-private partnerships; to ensure that the hospitals really are built. “It is also crucial to increase the number of people working in the Mozambican health service. I want to see the number of health professionals increase from 11 to 17 per 10,000 inhabitants,” said the minister. Also Read: Construction of new hospital for BayCare Health System in Florida, US begins eval(ez_write_tag([[580,400],'constructionreviewonline_com-box-4','ezslot_4',117,'0','0']));The Secretary of State for Maputo city, Sheila Santana, said the city has a large number of infections and deaths from the Covid-19 respiratory disease, because Maputo is the gateway to the country. “I believe that Maputo city has far and away the largest number of contaminations of any province because it is a major economic centre, and because all central level services are concentrated here. I therefore urged all residents to obey the measures decreed by the health ministry to prevent the spread of Covid-19 – such as regular hand washing, the obligatory wearing of masks in public places, social distancing and restrictions on the number of people who are allowed to attend events,” she added.