The ongoing construction of the Liwatoni floating footbridge in Mombasa Kenya is reportedly over 92% complete. This was announced following a recent site visit by the East African country Transport Cabinet Secretary (CS) James Macharia. Also Read: Construction of new overpasses in Nairobi Kenya gathers pace Of the 800 meters long infrastructure, only the construction of the 100 meters long movable part that will be opened and closed to allow for ships to pass through to and from the Mombasa port is yet to be constructed. eval(ez_write_tag([[580,400],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-4','ezslot_7',115,'0','0']));Built by the China Road and Bridge Corporation (CRBC) under the supervision of the Kenya National Highways Authority (KeNHA), the over US$ 17M footbridge will be commissioned by the head of the state, President Uhuru Kenyatta, in January next year. The footbridge will be managed by Kenya Ports Authority (KPA) and KeNHA and it is expected to cut the time it takes to cross the channel by 70%. eval(ez_write_tag([[468,60],'constructionreviewonline_com-box-4','ezslot_1',117,'0','0']));On the other hand, the CS revealed that the government is set to begin the construction of the Kshs. 82 billion Mombasa Gate Bridge in June this coming year, saying that the 1.4 km long bridge will be a long-term solution to easing traffic along the busy Likoni channel. “The bridge is being designed as we speak. We expect the design to be complete by June 2021 and the actual construction to start within the same year,” said CS Macharia. The government of Kenya is collaborating with its Japanese counterpart through the Japan International Corporation Agency for the actualization of the project will take approximately four years to complete from the date of commencement. According to the Transport CS, upon completion of the construction of the Mombasa Gate Bridge, the Liwatoni floating footbridge will be brought down and set up in other areas, such as Lamu, to serve other Kenyans.