eval(ez_write_tag([[468,60],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3','ezslot_2',114,'0','0']));Arizona State University (ASU) along with Sun Devil have announced that all the required approvals have been received for the commencement of construction of a new Multi-Purpose Arena, which will host university and community events and serve as the future home for ASU men’s ice hockey, wrestling and women’s gymnastics. This carries forward the development of the Novus Innovation Corridor and will be located south of Rio Salado Parkway on the east side of Packard Drive, immediately north of the existing Packard Drive Parking Structure. The Multi-purpose arena will have 5,000 seats and will be operated and managed by Oak View Group. Also Read: FTA to award US $530m for South Central Light Rail extension project in Arizona, US The arena was designed by SCI architects and will have Mortenson Construction as the  developer design-builder. The arena will additionally house an adjacent community ice rink. The Multi-purpose arena will serve as a public venue for the university and community to host concerts, conferences, youth competitions, educational opportunities, and more in Arizona. The second full-size ice sheet will also be accessible to students of the university, the community, and youth ice hockey programs. It will provide an additional public sheet to one of the fastest-growing states for youth hockey participation in the entire country. eval(ez_write_tag([[300,250],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-4','ezslot_0',115,'0','0']));“We’re thrilled to be selected as the team that will manage, operate and secure additional programming and content for the new home of Sun Devil hockey, wrestling, and women’s gymnastics,” said the Chairman Oak View Group Facilities, Peter Luukko. “We look forward to working with Ray and his ASU Athletics Department in creating an electrifying atmosphere inside the new ASU Multi-Purpose Arena.”Over 8,000 square feet has been set aside for an Arizona State University locker room, weight room, lounge, and coaches’ offices on the north side of the arena.  Construction is scheduled to begin in January 2021, with full completion projected for December 2022.