eval(ez_write_tag([[580,400],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3','ezslot_9',114,'0','0']));McCain Foods, the world’s largest potato processor has officially announced its plans for the construction of a second potato processing plant in China to meet the growing demand for its potato products. The new potato processing plant will require an investment of US$200 million and will be located in the Yangling Agriculture Hi-Tech Development Zone, Shaanxi Province. McCain Foods is aiming to continue to lead innovation in frozen potato products and meet the growing market demand for locally prepared products across a range of cuisines by increasing its capacity and specialized production capability as well as working closely with local farmers to source high-quality raw potatoes. Also Read: World’s largest hog farm to be constructed in China The potato processing company that is a family-owned business originated in New Brunswick where they have its headquarters, the company has been in China for over 25 years and is a leading supplier of frozen potato products for the local Western and Asian foodservice markets and more recently the retail sector. A range of McCain frozen potato products from French fries to potato specialties can be found in restaurants across China. McCain Foods Limited, China has its headquarters in Shanghai and employs 400 people. They operate an existing production facility in Harbin, Heilongjiang province and the proposed facility will be the second in the country. eval(ez_write_tag([[468,60],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-4','ezslot_1',115,'0','0']));Just recently, the world’s largest potato processor broke the first ground for another construction of one of its factories in Lelystad, Netherlands. The US$79million dollar investment will increase the production capacity for processing potatoes by 33%. The expansion comprises 9,000 m2, which will soon contain the latest and most modern machinery. The start of construction was signaled by Alderman for Economic Affairs, Janneke Sparreboom, together with Erwin Pardon, CEO of McCain Europe, and Luc Geurts, director of the Lelystad factory. The food company has been operating in the city for nearly 30 years and currently employs 250 people.