Third Mainland Bridge is the longest of three bridges connecting Lagos Island to the mainland, others are the Eko and Carter bridges. It was the longest bridge in Africa until 1996 when the 6th October Bridge located in Cairo was completed. The bridge starts from Oworonshoki which is linked to the Apapa-Oshodi express way and Lagos-Ibadan express way, and ends at the Adeniji Adele Interchange on Lagos Island. There is also a link midway through the bridge that leads to Herbert Macaulay Way, Yaba. The bridge was built by Julius Berger Nigeria PLC and opened by President Ibrahim Babangida in 1990; it measures about 11.8 km in length. Since its launch, the bridge has been undergoing haphazard maintenance which the present federal government is committed to correcting. Also Read: Kazungula bridge project timeline and what you need to know In August, the federal government of Nigeria announced a temporary shut down of the  Third Mainland Bridge for a period of four days  to allow investigative maintenance test to be carried out. According to the state Commissioner for Works and Infrastructure, Mr Ade Akinsanya, the decision came after a concluded consultation with the Federal Ministry of Power, Works and Housing. eval(ez_write_tag([[580,400],'constructionreviewonline_com-box-4','ezslot_2',117,'0','0']));The four-day closure, according to Akinsanya, would enable the contractors assess the true state of the bridge after which works would commence by the end of the year or early in 2019. In July, the federal government announced that the bridge will be closed for six months for maintenance works to begin. Construction would be done in 2 phases, three months on each carriageway. Phase 1 of the maintenance works which involved carrying out repair works on the closed part of the Oworonshoki-bound of the bridge, from Adeniji-Adele to Adekunle began in late July. By late September, all the six expansion joints had already been cut and concrete removed. Four out of the six joints had already been pulled out. In Mid-November, the Federal Government announced the completion of the first phase rehabilitation of the Third Mainland Bridge and a planned 18 hours total closure of the bridge. The Federal Controller of Works in Lagos, Mr Olukayode Popoola during an inspection of the bridge said that the fixing of six expansion joints on the Oworonshoki bound carriageway had been completed. Popoola said that debris would be cleared from the section and construction would move to the Island-bound carriageway, warranting a total closure of the bridge for 18 hours. The 18 hours closure began from midnight on Saturday through Sunday to move construction materials to the new portion and returned to the partial closure before Monday morning. This would enable the government to embark on the second phase of the project; Lagos Island-bound lane of the Third Mainland Bridge between Adekunle to Adeniji-Adele. Phase 2 is scheduled for completion in late February 2021.