Construction works has commenced on the the first of nine new regional waste disposal facilities in Cape Town province South Africa. Southern African Faith Communities Environmental Affairs MEC Anton Bredell confirmed the report and said the department and district municipality underwent a consultation process with residents and municipalities for more than 10 years for the project to come to fruition. “South Africa has a serious waste problem. We are running out of landfill space everywhere and the increased cost and growing environmental issues is a problem that we must tackle head-on before it is too late,” said Mr. Anton. Also Read:Construction of Sfax desalination plant in Tunisia to commence The first facility is situated in Mossel Bay and aims to tackle the problem of growing mountains of waste. The footprint of the waste management site will cover an approximate area of 115 hectares and the landfill waste cells itself will reach a maximum height of 12 metres. Three individual domestic waste cells, and one hazardous waste cell, will be excavated to 6 meters below ground level and filled sequentially. It will serve Bitou, Knysna, George and Mossel Bay. Morover,  it is also designed to accommodate domestic waste from Hessequa and Oudtshoorn Municipalities in the future. The initiative would create about 500 temporary and 60 permanent jobs during construction. The facility will have a lifespan of approximately thirty (30) years. The site will include a domestic waste cell (Class B landfill) and a separate hazardous waste cell (Class A), that will accommodate hazardous waste with low and medium hazard ratings. The services of a roaming chipper and crusher will also be made available to Mossel Bay, George and Knysna municipalities on a rotational basis in order to manage their green waste, construction and demolition waste, respectively. Further to this, bulk waste transport services will be available to George Municipality to transport domestic waste from Uniondale and George Waste Transfer Stations to the regional facility. Other infrastructure includes roads, stormwater pipelines, a leachate storage dam, a contaminated stormwater dam, offices, a laboratory, a weighbridge, fencing and security infrastructure. 