Railway signalling units, batteries and equipment for cell phone towers, security surveillance electronics, photo-voltaic and wind farms and other high-value support and back-up equipment are often the target of theft or damage due to their accessibility. The risk of theft is easily reduced by the installation of equipment shelters from Rocla, South Africa’s leading precast concrete designer and manufacturer. Rocla, has in the past, partnered with entities such as Transnet and South African Railways (SAR) to provide custom-designed precast concrete security units to house all the equipment that is required to control the signalling units. These units are placed alongside the railway track next to the signal units. The precast concrete Equipment Shelter is a durable concrete structure that can be custom-designed to meet the client’s requirements. The concrete structure is able to withstand rigorous attempted break-ins that typical brick and mortar solutions are vulnerable to. The design team at Rocla ensured that the unit design was practical for handling and transportation, yet strong enough to deter possible break-in attempts. Replacement costs of sensitive equipment is incredibly high, and the Equipment Shelter is a seriously solid solution to reduce tampering, theft and damage. Cast in one complete structure, with a cast-in base, and thick high strength walls, makes the Equipment Shelter virtually impenetrable. Damage to or entry through walls or the roof is also reduced due to the use of a very high steel content in the manufacture of the units. Each unit has two holes on either side for handling and installation, a specialized heavy duty door and sufficient space inside for equipment and movement. These holes will also provide sufficient ventilation, while still maintaining the security of the unit, for equipment housed inside. The Equipment Shelter is a cost-effective and reliable solution that can be applied across a multitude of industries, and manufactured to specifically meet customer’s requirements.