The government of Ghana through the Ministry of Finance has signed US $81.67m loan agreement with the African Development Bank (AfDB) to roll out the first phase of the Eastern Corridor road project. The Eastern Corridor road in Ghana project is set to link the capital Accra with the northern hinterland and across the borders to the Sahel region. The project estimated to cost US $113.27m covers 60-km of roads, two interchanges and related civil works incorporating community support initiatives to help improve livelihoods in the catchment area. The Eastern Corridor road in Ghana project is set to link the capital Accra with the northern hinterland and across the borders to the Sahel region. The project estimated to cost US $113.27m covers 60-km of roads, two interchanges and related civil works incorporating community support initiatives to help improve livelihoods in the catchment area. Phase 1 of the project covers the construction of roads and community development along; Dufor Adidome- Asikuma Junction (39.2km), Asutuare-Aveyime (23.9km) and the construction of two interchanges at Dufor Adidome and Asikuma Junction. Also Read:Musaila-Lubwe Kasaba road project in Zambia to resume The road project upon completion would address the needs of an estimated 230,000 people and impact the lives of over 5.4 million inhabitants by reducing travel and transit time, support education and health services delivery while agricultural potentials of the rural areas would be transformed. The stretch would be tolled and axle-weighing facilities provided to control overloading. It will additionally, create about 1,500 direct jobs in the region. Other lenders for the development include; the Opec Fund for International Development, the Ghanaian Government and the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA), which was financing a connecting bridge across the Volta River. The Project is to be implemented over a five-year period from 2018 to 2022. “With this project we hope to turn rural areas from areas of economic challenges to economic prosperity and bread baskets,” said Mrs Abena Osei Asare, Deputy Minister for Finance. 