The United States is well-known for it’s state of the art infrastructure and booming construction industry. Huge projects that have been underway for some time are nearing completion and others are just getting off the ground. The mega projects reflect rapid growth in the construction industry around the country. The following are the top ongoing mega projects in the USA California High-Speed Rail  (CHSR) is a publicly funded high-speed rail system under construction in the U.S. state of California. It is projected to connect the Anaheim Regional Transportation Intermodal Center in Anaheim and Union Station in Downtown Los Angeles with the Salesforce Transit Center in San Francisco via the Central Valley, providing a one-seat ride between Union Station and San Francisco in 2 hours and 40 minutes, a distance of 380 miles (612 km). It’s the most expensive railway in the country, at US $89 m per mile. Construction kicked off in 2015, and the finish of the first phase should have passengers moving in 2025, with subsequent portions opening in 2029. Sound Transit 3, also referred to as ST3, was a ballot measure during the November 2016 elections in Seattle, Washington, proposing an expansion of the regional public transit system. Seattle voted in favor of the expansion in a narrow margin, as 54% of voters were hopeful for one of the country’s largest construction projects. The billion dollar project will The $53.8 billion Sound Transit 3 plan will expand the existing Link light rail system to the suburbs of Tacoma, Federal Way, Everett and Issaquah, as well as the Seattle neighborhoods of Ballard and West Seattle. The transit network are set to open in stages from 2024 to 2041, with light rail construction beginning in the late 2020s for most extensions.The light rail is expected to run 20 hours a day, and will most certainly be a staple for the north western state in terms of tourism, daily commuting, and engineering prowess (ST3, 2019). The Las Vegas Convetion Center people mover is is the first commercial tunneling job for The Boring Co., after the construction of an R&D tunnel in Los Angeles. The people mover tram system project is a 1.5-mile long underground tunnel which will reportedly move up to 4,400 passengers per hour through two tunnels. Prior to the underground work, above ground work on stations had begun. The Hudson Yards  is a real estate development in the Chelsea and Hudson Yards neighborhoods of Manhattan, New York City. The project has been described as New York’s largest urban development since Rockefeller Center. It sits on a 28-acre site and is expected to create a new neighborhood of residential and office skyscrapers, schools, hospitals, retail spaces, parks, cultural venues, and public art. Upon completion, 13 of the 16 planned structures on the West Side of Midtown South would sit on a platform built over the West Side Yard, a storage yard for Long Island Rail Road trains. The first of its two phases, opened in 2019, comprises a public green space and eight structures that contain residences, a hotel, office buildings, a mall, and a cultural facility. The second phase, on which construction has not started yet, will include residential space, an office building, and a school. The Second Avenue Subway is a New York City Subway line that runs under Second Avenue on the East Side of Manhattan. Construction of the project has been in the works since the early 20th century. The first phase of this new line, with three new stations on Manhattan’s Upper East Side, opened on January 1, 2017. The full Second Avenue Line, if and when it is funded, will be built in three more phases to eventually connect Harlem–125th Street in Harlem to Hanover Square in Lower Manhattan. The proposed full line would be 8.5 miles and 16 stations long, serve a projected 560,000 daily riders, and cost more than $17 billion.  