Construction of the Palm Exotica resort in Watamu, Kilifi county Kenya has been put on hold following a decline of an environmental impact assessment license by the National Environment Management Authority (Nema). Nema Acting Director General, Mamo Mamo confirmed the report and said the project is not in conformity with the existing planning framework: Zoning plans, and physical planning laws and regulations, survey regulations and Coast foreshore reservations and stability. Uncertainty also surrounds the project’s density parameter and proximity to the fragile marine environment. The authority thus ordered the investors to either re-design the project to conform with existing planning framework or seek an alternative site. “Based on the above grounds and in light of the provisions of Environmental Management and Coordination Act, Cap 387, the authority is of the view that the proposed project will not enhance sustainable development and sound environmental management,” stated Mamo Mamo in a letter. Also Read: Rixos Hotels inks deal to construct its largest resort in Egypt The proposed US $277m project is a mixed-use development that will feature tastefully furnished residential suites, eclectic restaurants and a vibrant 24-hour casino, a good feature for coastal entertainment. Each intuitively designed floor plan, from studios, Presidential suites, exclusive Sky Apartments and Penthouse apartments are fitted with modern appliances and tasteful furniture. Floor-to-ceiling windows and expansive balconies will have uninterrupted views of the vibrant blues of the Indian Ocean and emerald tropical treetops. Residents will also have access to a host of facilities including a casino, nightclub, retail mall, theatre and cinema, state-of-the-art fitness centre, wellness spa and children’s play area as well as a 5-star hotel and its lavish facilities. Furthermore, the tower will give its occupants uninterrupted views of vivid ocean colours and the picturesque Watamu panorama.