In Doors East Africa Ltd was incorporated in 2010, starting out as a retail outlet dealing mainly in-Home Accessories. It has now grown its product range and have also appointed distributor for Conmix, a very well-known and internationally established brand of construction chemicals and premix plasters. The company has established a wide range of construction solutions to cater to the wide range of needs for different institutions. When it comes to hotel construction, In Doors East Africa is a one-stop shop for all kinds of integrated construction solutions and services from the basement to the roof, which ensures compatibility and avoids unnecessary problems. Their specialties used for hotel construction and maintenance include: Warm creative interior environment is important to the well-being of patients and health care personnel, plus a tight building envelop which protects this environment. In Doors E.A supplies a full range environmentally friendly construction solutions for this project type and has a worldwide experience. Their seamless resinous floor and wall systems are designed to withstand the most demanding hospital conditions. They provide lasting protection against frequent sanitization, staining agents, impact, and heavy traffic. They contain no seams to harbor microbial growth. Conmix ResiGard Flooring Systems such as Conmix ResiGard SL2 provides a tough, elastomeric solution for these spaces. Conmix ResiGard Wall Coating Systems such as Conmix ResiGard HB provide excellent abuse and sanitizer resistance and are easy to touch-up. In Doors East Africa also offers a wide portfolio of floor car park systems specially designed for all of these different applications and requirements. The systems are based on epoxy technologies for the hard-wearing surfaces and polyurethane resins for crack bridging and waterproofing. From a technical point of view, the main function of these deck systems is to protect the reinforced concrete structure and prevent the ingress of water and corrosive de-icing salts. Airport freight handling and other logistics areas include: warehousing, loading bays, ramps etc., where the floors must be extremely abrasion and wear resistant due to the heavy traffic, plus the areas must also be dust free and easy to clean. In Doors East Africa LTD tailor makes solutions which offer additional chemical or fire resistance, anti-slip properties, resistance to extremes of hot or cold temperatures and other specific performance demands, according to the function of the areas. Concrete structures and elements make up the major part of airport buildings and structures. Conmix provides admixtures and additives that have been developed to support the production of high quality concretes for these structures. Watertight concrete is frequently important, because airports are often located in wide flat areas where the ground water level can be very high. In addition, there are large paved areas which are exposed to heavy rainfall and flooded with surface water. Conmix MegaAdd WP, WL1, WL2 and WL3 concrete admixtures produce watertight concrete that is ideal for the construction of watertight basements and underground facilities such as car parks and transport system tunnels. For durable precast concrete elements such as pillars, tunnel segments, Conmix MegaFlow P4 and MegaFlow SP4 products are used to ensure their optimum rates of production and gain of strength, plus high quality units with an excellent surface finish are obtained. As part of its goal towards providing a comprehensive and diversified product offering, In Doors East Africa LTD has introduced a water treatment range of products which includes; Among remarkable projects the company has embarked on include;  