Elon Musk’s tunnelling company, The Boring Co., ​began underground construction on a tunnel for a tram system at the Las Vegas Convention Center in early November of 2019. This is the company’s first major underground tunnelling project paired it with the Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority (LVCVA). The project is contracted at US $52.5m and is expected to be completed in January 2021, in time for the annual Consumer Electronics Show. Aboveground work on stations and stops began in October after TBC’s boring machine was put together on site. The convention centre loop could be just the start of The work in Las Vegas. The tunnelling company is currently working with the local government on a possible project to construct a tunnel underneath the Las Vegas strip according to Jackie Dennis, the director of communications for the LVCVA. Also Read: Gemini Solar Project, Las Vegas, receives green light for construction. Elon Musk, the founder of Tesla and SpaceX, added that The Boring Co. in Las Vegas, team is currently focusing on achieving both a higher speed with the machine and tight follow distances in the test tunnel. The company’s goal with its machines is to be able to dig continuously versus the 10 minutes per hour that current machines on the market can operate. Other goals for Musk’s tunnel boring machine (TBM) are to be able to add modified cutters, automated segment erection and to triple the machines’ power. The project is the first commercial tunnelling job for The Boring Co., after the construction of an R&D tunnel in Los Angeles. When completed, the convention centre will be about 1.5 miles long, the new tunnel system will allow passengers to travel the full distance, which could take a half an hour to walk. Using the tram will be free for patrons of the convention centre. Recent announcements said the new tunnel system will also include elevators and escalators to provide access to each station; protection from the elements for pedestrians; video surveillance; WiFi; vehicular tunnel access; and underground passenger stations.