Established in 1995 by Eng. Parvez Iqbal under the able guidance and leadership of Dr. Eng. Zayed Al Khayarin, Gulf GRC & Trading Co. is a specialist in all varieties of industrial, commercial and residential interior and exterior decoration of buildings. Some of their major products include;  Glass Fiber-Reinforced Plastic (GFRP), also known as Glass-Reinforced Plastic (GRP), is a polymer composite material. It compromises polymer resins reinforced with fibers that are made out of such materials as glass, carbon, and basalt. GFRPs have become widely used in applications involved in the aerospace, automotive and construction industries. Developed in the mid-1930 and merely used in the construction sector, GFRP has now become a staple in the building industry following the discovery of its architectural advantages in 1967 with the attempted destruction of Disneyland’s “House of the Future” built between 1956 and 1957 using fiberglass. The wrecking ball used to destroy the building merely bounced off the structure and it was at that point that the possibilities of GFRP were recognized and its use began to increase. Today, Gulf GRC & trading co. provides a variety of GFRP products to help their clients meet their building needs and realize their unique aesthetic visions.  GRC is a composite material comprising of cement, fine aggregates, alkali-resistant glass fibers, and admixtures.  It is one of the most versatile and innovative building materials available today and is making a significant contribution to cost-saving, technology and to the aesthetics of the construction industry worldwide. GRC gives the architects a unique and unrivaled opportunity to express individual interpretation and creativity in a way not offered by any other material, in terms of shape, form, texture, weight, moldability and long term technical properties.  Glass Reinforced Gypsum (GRG) uses a combination of plaster, glass fiber matting/fiberglass chopped strands and metal/timber. Typically harder, stronger plasters are used so that larger items can be constructed without the excessive weight of traditional fibrous plasterwork. GRG’s offer High strength and surface hardness, excellent reproduction of fine detail, Low expansion that ensures dimensional accuracy avoiding cracking and breakage and Whiteness.  Ultra-High-Performance Fiber-Reinforced Concrete (UHPFRC) is a composite material which differs from an ordinary concrete in many ways. Mechanical properties like compressive and tensile strengths are much higher compared to conventional concrete. This makes it possible to make slender constructions because now a smaller cross-section can transfer the same force as a larger cross-section. Due to the very dense matrix, UHPFRC has outstanding durability properties. It is shown that the concrete is very resistant to chloride and other chemical attacks and has a high abrasion and fire resistance. The enhanced performance in strength and durability make the concrete suitable for many applications like the design of building structures, components, civil works, and bridges industrial realizations (both on-site and in precast factories) large-scale applications development of standards and recommendations GULF GRC & TRADING CO. also fabricates GRC sunshade screens, decorative cladding panels, fascia panels, balustrades, handrails, domes, light pre-cast panels, GRC ceilings, ornamental and decorative gypsum, fiber reinforcement gypsum and gypsum board ceiling, glass reinforcement gypsum and glass reinforcement plastic. It can supply the extreme quality of its products in any quantity at any time. Even in the most difficult projects, the company endeavors to manage them in a way that places the least strain and inconvenience on their clients. It achieves success by combining project management, expertise with artistic vision and skilled craftsmanship. 