Construction of the London HS2 Super-hub in West London which will provide a world-class interchange for an estimated 250,000 passengers each day is set to commence soon. The Super-hub will be a gateway into Old Oak and Park Royal, one of the largest regeneration sites in the country. The station’s design development was led by engineering professional services consultancy WSP, and architects WilkinsonEyre. Submission is the next stage in the development of the Old Oak Common site. The local community and wider general public were previously consulted on the designs for the station in 2019, through a series of formal public engagement events. Plans for the transformation of the wider area around the station, a former railway and industrial site, are being led by Old Oak and Park Royal Development Corporation (OPDC) and they expect that the area around the new HS2 station will become a neighbourhood with a potential to create tens of thousands of homes and jobs. Also Read: UK to invest over US $65.7m into renewable energy projects in Africa. The new station will incorporate passenger and retail facilities, providing exemplary customer experience for all passengers and visitors to the station. It will provide direct interchange with conventional rail services throughout 8 conventional train platforms, to be served by the Elizabeth Line (Crossrail), taking passengers to Heathrow Airport and Central London. Designs for the station show that the 6 high-speed platforms will be situated underground with an integrated connection to the adjoining conventional station at ground level through a stylish shared overbridge. A light and airy foyer will link both halves of the station, unified by a vast roof inspired by the site’s industrial heritage. To the west of the station, above the HS2 platforms, there are plans for a new public park, a green space which will welcome visitors to Old Oak Common and provide a new focal point for the ever-growing community. Work at Old Oak Common to prepare for construction of the station has been ongoing since 2017 and the site is almost ready to be handed over to the London HS2 Super-hub station construction partner, Balfour Beatty Vinci Systra JV (BBVS) who were awarded the contract last September.