Rhino Doors, one of the UK’s leading providers of pre-engineered and bespoke, primary and multi-performance rated doors for the rail industry, has today called for global rail infrastructure projects to consider using more effective fire doors. The call for change follows the completion of tests on a new lighter, more-cost effective, fire door which has achieved higher insulation performance than any other currently on the UK market. Rhino Doors recently completed initial fire tests on their EI 2120 steel fire door to the more onerous EN1634 standard. This new insulated fire door, which is designed to UK industry standards, with flush faces and architectural hardware, doesn’t rely on heavy, internal steel stiffening to resist thermal deflections to achieve high insulation performance. Commenting on the initial test results, Stuart Lawrence, Managing Director of Rhino Doors, said: “We are on track to complete a comprehensive fire and acoustic test programme by the middle of this year and are targeting a market launch in the third quarter of 2020. Once launched, this product will set the standard for fire safety doors on rail projects; being less-expensive, lighter and offering higher insulation performance than any other fire door currently used in UK rail infrastructure projects.” “With the global rail infrastructure industry embarking upon billions of dollars’ worth of new projects, now is the time for the architectural practices and engineering consultancies behind them to consider specifying the most effective fire protection doors they can for people escaping in large numbers from incidents.” Whilst primarily aimed at new-build surface and sub-surface rail station projects, Rhino’s new product will also be suitable for general use in buildings where people congregate in large numbers. Rhino Doors provides a comprehensive range of pre-engineered and bespoke, primary and multi-performance rated doors for the protection of national assets. Rhino Doors has established itself over many years in key sectors including Critical National Infrastructure, Rail, Defence, and Oil & Gas. Major infrastructure projects supported by Rhino Doors include Crossrail.  