A one-of-a-kind floor designed for the refurbishment of the food court at Greenstone Shopping Centre in Eden vale, Johannesburg, was installed using TALStone Flow, a fast track, industrial, terrazzo-look decorative flooring system. Originally opened in 2007, Greenstone Shopping Centre is one of the largest malls in South Africa with over 150 stores covering 85 000 m2 of retail space. The highly- detailed food court floor, designed by architects Bentel Associates International, was transformed into an eye-catching design of large butterflies, ladybirds and dragonflies last year using colored glass aggregates embedded into the seamless, polished screed. Whilst polished, decorative and seamless concrete floor solutions are in high demand, these terrazzo floors can take up to 28 days to cure before grinding and polishing can commence. Rapid-setting TALStone Flow, however, is polishable within four hours of installation and is designed to produce a durable and hard-wearing surface, which is very well suited for this high foot-traffic area in the shopping center. Furthermore, the product is shrinkage-compensated, durable and abrasion-resistant, and its seamless, smooth, noise-reducing substrate is easy to maintain. As a cement-based, self-smoothing, heavy-duty decorative screeding system, TALStone Flow is available in a wide range of colors and aggregate finish. To achieve the desired aesthetic, the products and aggregates chosen for this project were manufactured and supplied to specified RAL colors. The unique floor was installed by TAL approved applicator, Think Flood Flooring Specialists.  Established in the 1960s, The professional choice (TAL) is a division of Norcros SA, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Norcros PLC in the UK, and the leader in tile and construction adhesives. TAL specializes in tiling installation materials, tiling tools, building solutions and is renowned for the quality of its products. It is the brand of choice for tiling contractors, architects, and specifiers as well as DIY tile installers. TAL products are manufactured in South Africa to suit local climatic conditions. The expertise of TAL’s technical advisory staff is only a phone call away thanks to its national technical advice line. Whether you require product solutions for a fast-tracked tiling installation, have a concrete repair problem on-site or are simply installing tiles at home, TAL has the tiling and building solution that will suit your needs and get the job done correctly.