Elematic is a world-leading manufacturer of precast concrete plants and production lines. In more than 50 years of operation, they have supplied technology to over 100 countries and to every continent. The company’s turnover is approximately 100 million euros, of which exports generate 95%, and the company employs roughly 230 people. Elematic has subsidiaries and sales offices in the USA, Germany, China, Russia, India, Hong Kong and the United Arab Emirates, and agents in over 20 countries. The company headquarters is located in Akaa, Finland, and its production units are in Finland and India. Elematic has an ISO 9001 certified quality system and the international quality certificate Investor in People for the development of personnel. Elematic has a strong product line for precast wall element production, with three ready layout concepts – the SEMI, PRO and EDGE – depending on the amount of automation and production capacity needed. But there are many other solutions available. “We have a wide range of other layout options for different capacities which have been proven to perform well in many existing factories. Our strength lies in our customized wall production solutions.” commented Toni Koitmaa, Product Director, Wall Technologies, Elematic, based in Finland. One device that seems to be making a huge difference in improving the efficiency of wall production lines is the central transfer wagon, especially when the product range includes both simple, fast moving elements and complex panels that require more production time. “The central wagon moves the elements that take more time to be fabricated away from the main line so bottlenecks in production are avoided. This allows the elements that are fabricated faster to move forward and makes production very flexible,” Koitmaa points out. Pre-defined processes and proper documentation during the whole manufacturing process are important to ensure consistency in production and quality control. It can also cast stiffer grades of concrete than conventional casting machines and reduces surface finishing time. Their FaMe system is comprised of push button magnets and aluminium side forms to replace wood and steel, which leads to substantial savings. It was designed to improve work safety and lower the chances of finger injuries. Battery moulds, which are used to cast solid load-bearing walls, can likewise have a big effect on efficiency. The cold shutter system, which is offered by very few equipment manufacturers in the industry, practically doubles the capacity of a standard battery mould. By transferring the cold shutter plates to the battery mould after the previously cast elements has been taken out, the casting cycle is significantly accelerated. “The cold shutter system really speeds up the production cycle since only casting and hardening take place inside the battery mould. 