The Warri Uvwie and Environs Special Area Development Agency (WUEDA), has announced that the first phase of storm drainage project meant to check flooding in the area is set to commence soon. The project was designed to channel flood water directly to the natural water reservoirs surrounding Warri, Uvwie and its environs. According to the Director General of WUEDA, Comrade Ovouzuorie Macaulay, the project is expected to be completed in 18 months, then urged youths in the affected communities to corporate with the contractor Consolidated Contractors Company CCC the project so as to finish the project in record time. “If the project is disrupted by anybody, it can drag up to four years and above,” he warned. Also Read: Construction of steel bridge over Okye River in Ghana completed He further added that this was the only time in the history of the state that a comprehensive plan has been developed to ensure that the issue of flooding in Warri, Uvwie and its Environs is resolved once and for all. He also assured the communities where the drainage system will go through that they will be given adequate compensation where necessary before any demolition will take place, stressing that it was not yet time for demolition of structures that will pave way for the drainage. “I appeal to leaders of all the communities to laiase with the laiason officers that will be set to interface with them and channel all the grievances to them. Any youths that want to disrupt the project will be severely dealt with since this agency has zero tolerance for criminal elements,” he warned. On his part, the Chairman of Uvwie Council, Hon Ramsey Onoyake commended the DG of WUEDA for bringing together all relevant stakeholders in a round table assuring the agency that council will give them its maximum support. “Uvwie people are peace loving people and we will accommodate everybody and we are ready to work with the company to ensure that the project is completed. The era when projects were disrupted is over. We are using this medium to encourage investors to come to Uvwie council to do business because Uvwie is peaceful,” Onoyake said.