Lamboo® is a US-based manufacturer and supplier of full architectural product solutions utilizing one of the most rapidly renewable resources on the planet, bamboo. Since 2007, Lamboo has taken its initial development of structural and exterior grade products and expanded its technology into a variety of other architectural, building, and OEM product solutions. The company continues to focus on developing state-of-the-art architectural bamboo products and systems for the building industry. It has recently refined its product offerings and developed more turn-key product solutions, making it easier than ever to specify Lamboo. Now separated into 3 categories, customers can specify Lamboo within Interiors, Exteriors & Structural Applications. Under this category, Lamboo has products such as; Solid panels & Veneer  Interior acoustic systems  Interior ceiling systems  Stair treads & handrails  Fire-rated panels Tabletops  Exterior panels & components  Rainscreen siding & soffit  Bamboo composite decking & siding systems  Windows & Doors  Structural beams & members  Curtainwall & storefronts   Lamboo®’s natural-based products are made entirely out of 100% pre-selected bamboo and utilize specialized adhesives, binders, and treatment specific to the final application of the product. Furthermore, Lamboo products can be manufactured to meet design requirements for interior, exterior, and structural applications. The company works hand in hand with architects and engineers to provide the perfect solution for their designs. Lamboo also offers services that include: Lamboo®’s CNC capacities are almost limitless. With experienced in-house engineers, Lamboo® can provide custom milling and profiling services for pretty much any project. From complex curves, pocketing, and edge profiling, Lamboo® will provide you with quality service at a competitive price. The company can currently CNC mill: soft/hardwoods, plastics, thin metals, phenolics, and other materials we believe we can machine. Contact us today for your custom milling services Lamboo® now offers molding services for dimensional shapes for handrails, door trim, siding, soffit, and any other type of profiled dimensional lumber per the project requirements. With its five head molder, the company is versatile in creating the shaped product you need for your project. Provide Lamboo® with the materials you would like molded and profiled shape desired for the project, and Lamboo® will provide you with a quality product at competitive pricing. Lamboo® now offers custom millwork services for the architectural & design industries, which can serve as an elegant enhancement to any project. The company strives to help find the best solutions for your project. With experienced woodworkers and engineers, this allows you, the customer, to have confidence in the solutions it provided. Lamboo® offers staining and finishing services for interior and exterior product applications. When you want your parts to look and feel exactly as you designed them, Lamboo® can provide that service to you, the customer. Lamboo® can stain and finish dimensional components and full 4′ x 8′ panels. If your project requires a custom color, Lamboo® can help provide stain matching services as well. Have an idea but just don’t know how to put it on paper? Let Lamboo®’s in-house technical staff help. Lamboo® offers shop drawing services for a variety of applications from manufactured parts for OEM applications to architectural projects. The company focuses on the customer, to provide them the quality service required for their project. From small residential projects to large multi-phase commercial projects, Lamboo has a solution for you!