The following are the top construction companies in the Australia: Hutchinson Builders is a is a privately-owned Australian construction company now 108 years old and built through five generations. The company has a track record of working hard to increase capability, build technical expertise, and seek out innovative solutions, while continuing to invest in the enduring partnerships with subcontractors and clients for which we are well-known. They have always been about people and relationships. This is reflected in the longevity of employees, (who stay an average of 16 years), decades-long relationships with suppliers, and a track record of repeat clients. The company has a long history of collaboration. They have worked in partnership on almost 100 projects over some 30 years. With numbers like a US $2.83bn turnover, 1500 employees, 300 projects a year, and a US $326m debt-free balance sheet, they look a lot like a BIG builder. But they are just as happy building a family home for one of their many clients as a US $400m tower in the city. CPB Contractors is the Australasian construction company of the CIMIC Group. The company was founded in 1949 and since then, it has been designing and constructing major civil engineering and building projects across Australasia. Working closely with clients and partners, their projects connect communities, play a key role in urban and rural development, help drive economic growth and provide vital long-term infrastructure. They combine the construction expertise and track record formerly delivered by Leighton Contractors and Thiess, along with the people and projects of Leighton Asia and their subsidiary Broad Construction. CPB Contractors works across all key sectors of the construction industry, including roads, rail, tunnelling, defence, building and resources infrastructure. Their operations span Australia, New Zealand, Asia, India and Papua New Guinea, including some of the region’s most iconic projects. Also Read: Top construction companies in the world Lendlease is an international property and infrastructure group with core expertise in shaping cities and creating strong and connected communities. Headquartered in Sydney, they have a presence in four operating regions: Australia, Europe, the Americas and Asia. The company delivers critical infrastructure, stadiums and entertainment facilities around the world, hospitals, schools, shopping centres, residential communities and high rise apartment buildings to the highest sustainability standards. With more than 60 years experience, Lendlease has been entrusted with many projects of public, cultural and social significance: constructing the Sydney Opera House, creating the National September 11 Memorial & Museum in New York, and restoring and renovating historic buildings such as London’s Tate Britain and National Theatre. Since it was founded in 1972 ADCO Constructions has been committed to quality delivery, to to clients. These foundations have built a legacy cemented by over 3,500 projects valued in excess of US $14bn. The company has over 500 employees and growing who deliver annual revenues approaching US $1bn. ADCO also provides financial surety for clients and their financiers. They maintain a policy of profit reinvestment and working capital management to ensure thier balance sheet remains commensurate with the size of the business. ADCO exceeds the financial requirements for licensing in each state and territory, for private and government projects. They have strong cash and liquid asset reserves and a blue-chip client base, which translate into consistent cash flow and profitability. Fulton Hogan builds and maintains infrastructure that improves the quality of life across New Zealand, Australia and the South Pacific. It was founded by Julius Fulton and Robert Hogan in 1933. Through strong teamwork and a desire to get things done, the company has grown tremendously and now employs more than 7,800 people across the three countries. Fulton Hogan also supplies construction products from concrete, asphalt and aggregates through to biodiesel, signs and graphics. It has been doing so for the last 50 years.  