Russian state nuclear corporation Rosatom has introduced its mobile water treatment and desalination UMKWA units to the South African market. The units aim to provide an intermediate solution for urban and rural areas that do not currently have access to clean water, or are experiencing water disruptions due to failed infrastructure. According to Ryan Collyer, acting CEO of Rosatom Central and Southern Africa, Rosatom Central and Southern Africa saw the immediate need for short term water treatment solutions in the region, and they therefore decided to fast track the introduction of mobile water treatment units into South Africa. “The aim is to distribute these units across the continent to give people access to clean water and improve living standards,” says Collyer. “Our hope is that this will help curb the spread of the coronavirus. Beyond that, the mobile water units will help to prevent the spread of water borne diseases such a cholera, which still claims thousands of lives each year,” he said. Also Read: DWS rolls out more water tanks in Gauteng, South Africa The UMKWA mobile water treatment solution is a fully containerised system that is mounted to the back of a standard one-ton pickup truck. The units, which are designed and produced in Russia by Rosatom subsidiary JSC Science and Innovations, are able to treat one ton of water per hour. They can also be configured to handle various water conditions, including sea water desalination, making them well-suited to drought stricken coastal areas. The units require no additional chemicals and make use of state-of-the-art UV disinfection and low-pressure reverse osmosis to treat the water as per World Health Organisation standards. The units require a 5-kW power source and come standard with a petrol generator. They can also be powered by solar energy or connected to a municipal power point. Designed to require very little set up, the UMKWA units can be operational within six minutes, and only require one operator per unit. UMKWA units require little maintenance, make use of standardised filters, and come with an optional maintenance support programme. The units are suitable for various applications, including construction sites, mines, hotels and lodges in isolated areas, hospitals and clinics, as well as for municipalities and rural development programmes. “The mobile units can be used along rivers, dams or even the ocean. Clean water can then be distributed at the site of treatment or can be transported by tanker and distributed to nearby residents. The units can add much needed support to ailing municipal water treatment facilities. Larger containerised solutions that can replace existing outdated facilities are also available,” adds Mr. Collyer.  