Abu Dhabi National Energy Company (TAQA) announced its subsidiary, Abu Dhabi Distribution Company (ADDC), awarded projects worth up to US $245m to expand the company’s recycled water distribution program. The two new projects will, upon completion, have a combined capacity to transmit approximately 85 million imperial gallons per day (MIGD) of recycled water, enough to irrigate more than 3.5 million palm trees. The program’s expansion will significantly increase the use of recycled water beyond municipal landscaping to include commercial and agricultural operations. Following completion of the projects, approximately 4,000 farms could benefit from the supply of recycled water, which would further support the program’s objectives to optimize the use of desalinated water, prevent the depletion of ground water resources and divert more recycled water towards a wider range of uses. Also Read: Manipur water supply project inaugurated in India This phase of ADDC’s recycled water distribution program builds on its announcement in January, when the company began transmitting a capacity of 4.4 MIGD of recycled water for landscaping irrigation on Saadiyat Island, through a new transmission scheme supplied from the existing network on Yas Island. Now, ADDC’s expanded transmission infrastructure will serve commercial and agricultural clients along the outskirts of the city of Abu Dhabi. These two new projects will, collectively, encompass the laying of approximately 150km of pipelines in two phases, with the first 30 MIGD pipeline project slated for completion by Q3 2021 and the second 55 MIGD project slated for Q4 2021. According to Omar Abdulla Alhashmi, Executive Director of Transmission and Distribution at TAQA, the expanded recycled water program directly supports TAQA’s vision for a future in which they are not only a sustainable, reliable and efficient supplier of water, but an organization whose operations directly contribute to the realization of the UAE’s broader sustainability and environmental goals. “We are particularly focused on the goals outlined in the national strategies for energy and water supply, which anticipate an increase in demand and the deployment of more clean technologies and sustainable methods of service delivery. The expansion of ADDC’s recycled water distribution program plays a key role in TAQA’s transformative impact on Abu Dhabi’s utilities sector – across the value chain and for decades to come,” he said.