The Emirates Nuclear Energy Corporation (ENEC) has successfully completed the construction of Unit 2 of the Barakah Nuclear Energy Plant, the Arab World’s first nuclear energy plant located in the Al Dhafra region of Abu Dhabi. The unit has now been officially handed to Nawah Energy Company (Nawah), ENEC’s operating and maintenance subsidiary, for operational readiness activities. With the achievement of this strategic milestone, Unit 2 has cleared its construction phase and the focus now shifts to completing the operational readiness preparations, testing, regulatory inspections, and international assessments required for Nawah to obtain the Operating Licence for Unit 2 from the UAE’s independent nuclear regulator, the Federal Authority for Nuclear Regulation (FANR). This accomplishment was preceded by the successful completion of Hot Functional Testing (HFT) in August of 2018, and the successful completion of Structural Integrity Testing (SIT) and Integrated Leak Rate Testing (ILRT) in March 2019. The advanced tests demonstrated Unit 2’s exemplary structural safety performance and ensured that its systems and components will reliably and safely perform their intended functions when operational. Also Read: UAE becomes first peaceful nuclear energy operating nation in Arab world According to H.E. Mohamed Al Hammadi, Chief Executive Officer of ENEC, the completion of Unit 2 construction activities in adherence to the highest international standards of safety, security and quality, and the handover of all systems to Nawah for commissioning are important milestones that reflect the dedication and skill of everyone involved in the UAE Peaceful Nuclear Energy Program. These achievements also highlight the benefits of building four identical reactors simultaneously, as the lessons learned during the construction of Unit 1 have contributed to the successful development of Units 2, 3 and 4 of the Barakah Plant. “These milestones at Unit 2 are also a further testament to the vision and commitment of the UAE’s leadership in the transition to clean energy sources in the region, and our successful collaboration with KEPCO as our Prime Contractor and Joint Venture partner. The UAE Peaceful Nuclear Energy Program is an engine of social, academic and economic growth for the nation, by enhancing our energy security, diversifying our economy, and creating high-value careers opportunities for UAE Nationals. Today we are one step closer to securing a cleaner, brighter future for generations to come,” said H.E. Al Hammadi. Unit 2 of the Barakah Plant has already successfully completed a number of individual and combined system tests, including Cold Hydrostatic Testing (CHT), the Structural Integrity Test (SIT), and Integrated Leak Rate Test (ILRT) as part of the first phase of its Initial Testing Program (ITP). The ITP aims to ensure that the Unit’s systems operate in accordance with the highest industry standards and will continue to do so during the operation of the plant over the coming decades.