Construction of IndianOil‘s state-of-the-art Technology Development & Deployment Centre begins. This is its second R&D Campus at IMT, Sector-67 in Faridabad The new campus, coming up on a 60-acre plot at a cost of approx. Rs. 2200 crores would focus on demonstration & deployment of a wide range of technologies developed by IndianOil R&D and will work in tandem with the existing campus at Sector-13, Faridabad. With its detailed project report prepared by a consortium of internationally renowned architects and science planners, the new R&D Campus will house four Centres of Excellence, in Alternative & Renewable Energy, Nanotechnology, Synthetic Biology and Corrosion Research. The R&D Centre is designed to achieve the highest sustainability rating of LEED Platinum certification and has been designed to be a net-zero campus in terms of energy and water use; its power (9MW) and water needs will be met through on-campus solar energy and water-harvesting systems. Also Read: Waste-to-energy plant to be constructed at Okhla landfill site, India The new campus will be an extension of IndianOil’s R&D Centre, set up at Faridabad in 1972 to establish domestic capabilities in producing a wide range of lubricating oils. Since then, the Centre has developed over 4,500 formulations, and IndianOil today markets over 800 grades of OEM-approved lubricants and greases to suit virtually every application across all sectors. The R&D Centre has over the years blossomed into a state-of-the-art institution for downstream petroleum R&D, focussing on indigenous technologies and processes to suit Indian conditions. The Centre has many achievements to its credit in the ‘Make in India’ spirit, having recently crossed the milestone of 1,000 patents and today stands at 1164 nos. While many refinery process technologies and catalysts developed by the Centre have been adopted by various IndianOil and non-IndianOil refineries in the country, its IndMax technology was recently licenced to NIS, Serbia – a group refinery of M/s. Gazprom Neft, Russia.