Getting another new construction home inspection may sound insane yet it bodes well. New doesn’t mean right. We’ve seen that in around 9 out of 10 new homes that we have investigated, the monitor has discovered something significantly wrong. When something significant isn’t right, it can cost you cash for future fixes or in your month to month utility expenses. Other than money related investment funds, you’ll get long periods of genuine feelings of serenity realizing that you don’t need to think about whether everything was introduced effectively. The City Building Department assesses each home, all things considered, phases of development however they don’t reinspect very similar things. Now and again a sub-contractual worker will break something and the laborer wouldn’t like to pay for the harm so it isn’t accounted for. Sub-contractual workers are regularly paid by the foot which implies that speed approaches more cash. Fixing and re-accomplishing something costs them cash. Truly, the developer investigates things when they’re done, yet a few things are missed. City Building Inspectors have a check-list that must be completed for the City to issue the Certificate of Occupancy. Some items on the list are not verified visually- like attic insulation. The insulation company issues a certificate and the inspector accepts that. Yes, there are mistakes- some big and some small. After the Certificate of Occupancy is issued, the house is cleaned. Next, you do a walk-thru and systems orientation. After that is completed, the builder fixes things that were noted on the punch list while you sign the loan and title documents. Your loan will fund the next day and the deed will record. Congratulations! Now you get the keys to your new home and you believe everything works great. We hope that this is true for you. However, because that’s not always the case, we recommend that you have your home inspected. Warranties last for different periods but most at least cover almost everything for the first year. Appliances and mechanical systems will typically have a 2-year warranty and roof tiles may have a 7-30 year defect warranty. Most new construction Las Vegas Builders have some kind of 2-10 Year Structural Warranty. Structural warranty claims average over $40,000 so having one is important. Of course, after you close on your home, extended warranties will be offered to you for everything. Items not covered by most builders after your initial walk-thru are ones that aren’t obviously their fault. Those include scratches on mirrors, glass, and wood. We encourage our clients to enjoy their orientation and to only focus on cosmetic items and how their home functions. You’ll be given touch-up paint but check the paint and drywall at your walk-thru so that you will only need minimal paint touch-up after you move in. We suggest that you keep a list of repair items in a kitchen drawer and submit it to the builder’s customer service every month or two. Mark your calendar on about your 11 month anniversary to submit a final repair request. Make sure you check for settling cracks in the walls and ceiling and around the outside of your home. Before your new home purchase is finalized you have leverage. A builder wants you happy so that they can move on to the next house. If there is a problem after your walk-through you have to tell customer service. The problem we see with this is that you may not know that there is a problem to tell them about. We suggest that you verify everything is correct before you take possession of your new home. People believe that everything is correct because they purchased a brand new home.  We understand that, so we pay for a new-construction home inspection for every client we represent. If you are not our client, please hire an inspector. Hidden issues are what can cost you money besides possibly harming a system. While your “Walk-Through and System Orientation” is taking place, we have a knowledgeable new construction home inspector, who works for you, take a closer look at everything in your home. The inspection is for your protection and peace of mind. An additional bonus is that this inspection can pay for itself many times over. Most people will never go into their attic, on their roof or examine their windows closely. Finding obvious flaws and cosmetic items at the walk-thru and during the first month is normal. The unknown is what can cost you money- monthly, yearly, and when you sell the home years from now.