The Mozambique LNG project comprises the Golfinho-Atum gas field development in the offshore Area 1 Block of the deep-water Rovuma Basin and the construction of a 12.88 million tonnes per annum (Mtpa) onshore liquefied natural gas (LNG) facility on the Cabo Delgado coast of Mozambique. This will be the first onshore LNG facility in Mozambique. The Golfinho and Atum gas fields are located in 1,600m-deep waters within the Rovuma Basin Area 1, approximately 40km off the coast of Cabo Delgado. The Offshore Area-1 is estimated to contain 75 trillion cubic feet (tcf) of recoverable natural gas resources. The LNG processing and export facility will be developed in the Afungi peninsula in Cabo Delgado, the northernmost province of Mozambique. The Area 1 Mozambique LNG facility will consist of two liquefaction trains with a combined nameplate capacity of 12.88Mtpa in the initial phase. It will also house gas pre-treatment facilities and full-containment LNG storage tanks. The LNG production capacity of the facility is proposed to be further expanded up to 50Mtpa in future. The plant will receive feed gas supply from the Golfinho-Atum gas field through pipeline and produce LNG for export to the Asian and European markets, as well as for domestic consumption in Mozambique. Other support facilities for the LNG plant will include materials offloading facility and an LNG marine terminal capable of accommodating large LNG carriers, which will also be shared with upcoming Area 4 LNG projects. Also Read: Kusile power station project timeline and all you need to know The environmental impact assessment (EIA) for the Area 1 Mozambique LNG project was carried out. The Mozambican Ministry of Coordination of Environmental Affairs (MICOA) approved the EIA report in June 2014. The concessions to design, build and operate the marine facilities for the project were secured from the Government of Mozambique in July 2017. The Government of Mozambique gave the final approval for the Area 1 Mozambique LNG development plan in March 2018. The final investment decision (FID) on the Mozambique LNG project, which is estimated to cost approximately US $20bn, was taken in June 2019. Construction works on the integrated LNG project were started in August 2019. The start of production is scheduled for 2024. The African Development Bank (AfDB) concludes its bid to co-finance the construction of Mozambique’s integrated Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) plant by signing a senior loan of US $400m for the project.