The upgrade of Lichota-Migori Airstrip, also known as Lichota Airstrip located in Migori County, Kenya has officially begun following the handover of the project to the contractor, M/S Halane Construction Limited. According to Kenya Airports Authority (KAA) the owner and operator of the airstrip among nine other civilian airports and airstrips in the East African country, the project is estimated to cost approximately US $2.2M According to the Western Regional Airports Manager Mrs. Selina Gor, the scope of the work on the upgrade of Lichota-Migori Airstripas per the contract agreement includes the development of the 1,100 meters long and 16 meters wide Lichota Airstrip runway to bituminous standards and a pavement. This will enable the airstrip to have the capacity to accommodate Code 1C aircraft. Also Read: Mombasa-Nairobi expressway to receive government funding in budget allocation The contractor will also be responsible for the construction of a new Apron, Security fence, and Patrol road around the facility which is precisely located some eight kilometers from Migori town and 22 kilometers from the Kenya Tanzania border. The upgrade of Lichota-Migori Airstrip is expected to complete in a span of 12 months. According to the Western Regional Airports Manager, the upgrading of the airstrip is a part of Vision 2030 projects aimed at boosting local tourism and scaling the economy of Migori County. During the construction phase, the project is expected to create employment opportunities for locals where unskilled laborers are required. Upon completion, the project will complement the current transport system and consequently boost trades in the gold-rich Migori County. Furthermore, it is expected to enhance the tourism circuit between Kenya and the neighboring republic of Tanzania due to its proximity to the Maasai Mara game reserve, the Serengeti National Park, and the Thim Lich Ohinga in Nyatike which was recently listed as a World Heritage site. According to Migori County Commissioner, Joseph Rotich, the project will also decongest Kisumu International Airport hence improving the safety and security of passengers.