Dafo Vehicle Fire Protection has started a partnership with Cool & Care SARL. Dafo Vehicle’s fire suppression solutions will be added to C&C’s wide range of fire safety products and services, giving business in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) access to services and equipment previously unavailable in the Region. C&C will offer Dafo Vehicle’s Suppression Systems and solutions to businesses of all sizes and types in the DRC. “We are delighted to include Dafo Vehicle as one of our partners. Not only do we share a common purpose, helping clients and their organizations protect themselves, but we are also committed to providing the most reliable and very best in fire detection and suppression”, says Amit kr Gupta, Project Manager of Cool & Care SARL. “We are glad to increase our presence in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and especially within the mining industry as we through this partnership are now able to support our customers with shorter lead times” says Fredrik Rosen, Dafo Vehicle Business Manager for Middle East, North-, West-, East and Central Africa adding that for the mining industry Dafo Vehicle is retrofitting and servicing fire suppression systems for all types of heavy-duty mining vehicles both for underground applications and open pit applications. “We truly believe our customers will benefit from this partnership with the increase in access to services and tools, helping ensure that heavy duty vehicles and equipment can be equipped and protected all over the region” concludes Gupta. About Dafo Vehicle Dafo was founded in 1919 and has developed into a modern, high-tech company committed to offer the very best solutions to its customers. Dafo was one of the first companies in the world which started to develop integrated firefighting solutions for vehicles back in 1976. Dafo Vehicle Fire Protection has three main business areas: Integration (Fire suppression systems integration into OEM production line, Retrofit (Fire suppression systems installed at final customer) as well as Service & Maintenance. The Dafo Vehicle group today consist of several subsidiaries and Dafo dealers – Dafo Vehicle Oy (Finland), Dafo US, Dafo Deutschland, Dafo Russia, Dafo Asia, Dafo Spain, Dafo UK & Ireland, Dafo Middle East, Dafo Chile, Dafo Brasil, Dafo Australia and Dafo Peru. The head office is located in Tyresö, Sweden. 