The construction works of the new Zimbabwe Parliament Building in Mount Hampden, a village in Mashonaland West Province approximately eleven miles from Harare, the capital of the Southern Africa country, is nearing completion according to Engineer Henry Hungwe, the acting chief director for Public Works in the Ministry of Local Government. Eng. Hungwe was speaking during an appreciation tour of the New Parliament Building. He said that no more structural works will be undertaken on the imposing six-storey Parliament Building and therefore, the super-structure is literally 100 percent complete now. Also Read: Zimbabwe to inject US $23m into construction of a new city “What’s outstanding is only the internal and external finishing works to enhance the beauty of the structure and to make it fully operational. A team of Chinese and Zimbabwean professionals is currently working on this sector, whose works mainly have to do with the electricity and water supplies, air conditioning, plastering, and painting, etc., and hopefully, we will beat the April 2021 deadline” explained the acting chief director. Sitting on a 6-hectare piece of land, the new Parliament Building generally comprises of common areas, offices, special services, and the general public and press areas, 800 parking bays, 50 of which are reserved for VVIPs, and associated services. The government of the Republic of Zimbabwe envisions a new city in the Mashonaland West Province close to the new parliament building and it has already set aside an approximately 18 863 hectares piece of land adjoining Mazowe and Zvimba rural district councils and the City of Harare, for the construction of the city in question. As part of the project, new modes of transport including high-performance trains will be established and the nearby Charles Prince Airport will be upgraded. A new road leading to the new parliament building and which has already been named “Chairman Mao Boulevard”, in honor of a great friend of the country, will also be constructed.