The Bolton Council has granted planning permission for the US $317.1m Crompton Place Shopping Centre, a development which lies at the heart of the council’s US $1.9bn town centre masterplan. The scheme is a key step forward in delivering an exciting vision for a refreshed and revitalised Bolton town centre and includes a complimentary mix of uses in line with the current agenda for tackling struggling town centres. The project is being brought forward by Bolton Regeneration Ltd., a partnership between Beijing Construction Engineering Group International (BCEGI) and regeneration specialists Midia Group, which is working alongside Bolton Council to realise the scheme. Also Read: DCC in UK approves proposals to construct Derby’s first Build-To-Rent scheme Designed by Chapman Taylor, the mixed-use scheme for the site includes a 110-bedroom hotel, 150 homes, 10,500m² of office space, and a mixed-use retail, leisure, dining and events space (dubbed “Bolton Works”) designed to accommodate independent retailers and food operators and also includes incubator space for small business start-ups. A comprehensive public realm design will provide a predominantly pedestrianised environment with user-friendly shared surfaces designed in-line with current best practice. The development will be seamlessly integrated into the wider streetscape and urban fabric to help reunite Bradshawgate with Victoria Square and improve the access and pedestrian flows within the town centre. It will also act as a formal backdrop to the town hall, completing the high-quality set-piece of the square and featuring a colonnade which shelters artisan cafés and restaurants. Great emphasis has been placed on long-term economic and environmental sustainability through the complementary mix of uses, choice of materials, soft landscaping, green roof terraces and rainwater collection, as well as a centralised energy centre, natural ventilation and solar collection. According to Bolton Council’s Deputy Leader, Cllr Martyn Cox, this is a major milestone for Crompton Place, which is a fundamental part of the US $1.9bn town centre masterplan. “These plans will create a destination which combine town centre living, retail and leisure in a top quality environment. It means new homes, new jobs, and new businesses coming to Bolton,” he said.