Huawei is set to build an Optoelectronics R&D and manufacturing centre in Cambridge, UK. This is after the first phase of the Huawei Campus was approved by the local council. This new state-of-the-art facility will be located in the heart of the UK’s ‘Silicon Fen’. The first phase of the project which will cost US $1bn will include construction of 50,000 square meters of facilities across nine acres of land and will directly create around 400 local jobs. Once fully operational, it will become the international headquarters of Huawei’s optoelectronics business. This investment will be a major boost for high tech development in the region, helping to further cement Cambridge as a global innovation hub. The first phase of the project will focus on the research, development, and manufacturing of optical devices and modules, an integrated model that promises to bring innovation faster to market. Optoelectronics is a key technology used in fibre optic communication systems and this investment aims to bring the best of such technology to data centres and network infrastructure around the world. Also Read: New electrified powertrains R&D center to be constructed in Tianjin, China According to Victor Zhang, Vice President of Huawei, the UK is home to a vibrant and open market, as well as some of the best talent the world has to offer. “It’s the perfect location for this integrated innovation campus. Through close collaboration with research institutes, universities, and local industry, we want to advance optical communications technology for the industry as a whole, while doing our part to support the UK’s broader Industrial Strategy. Ultimately, we want to help enshrine the UK’s leading position in optoelectronics and promote UK tech on a global scale,” he said. Today’s approval follows over three years of work and planning. Huawei began the search for the ideal location back in 2017, and completed the acquisition of the 500 acre South Cambridgeshire site in 2018. The company began its planning application process in early 2019. The site is located at the former Spicers paper mill and production facility located to the west of Sawston. The site includes over 50 acres of brownfield land.