New York Governor Andrew M. Cuomo has announced plans for the development of a 291-unit affordable and supportive housing under the US $1.4bn Vital Brooklyn initiative, in the Flatbush neighborhood, Brooklyn. The initiative targets and invests in eight integrated areas, from health care to housing, establishing a new standard for addressing chronic economic and racial disparities in Brooklyn’s high-need communities. Known as ‘Clarkson Estates’ the development which is being developed by CAMBA Housing Ventures, will have 291 affordable housing for families and individuals and half of the apartments – 146 units – will be set aside for youth aging out of foster care, formerly incarcerated individuals, and formerly homeless young adults. The on-site supportive services offered by CAMBA will be supplemented by an extensive network of benefits available to the larger community in the development’s 30,000-square-foot “HUB”. Many of the Community HUB’s facilities will be open to the public and help encourage community engagement. Resources available at the HUB include: Childcare services, health screening center, small business services incubator and workforce training, violence prevention and mediation center, youth education and development center, technology training center that includes adult education and financial literacy classes, recording and rehearsal studio, and performance space, full-sized basketball court for general community use and access; competitive basketball leagues, and community events, food pantry and café; and design studio and exhibition space. Also Read: New equity partner for 100 Claremont Avenue project secured The HUB will be named for and dedicated to the memory of Dr. Roy A. Hastick, a gifted, caring and visionary business leader who passed away from COVID-19 in April. Dr. Hastick devoted his time to the health of the community in Brooklyn and the Caribbean diaspora, founding the Caribbean American Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Inc. (CACCI) and convening more than 600 small business seminars to benefit the community. According to Governor Cuomo, as the pandemic creates significant hardships for New Yorkers, it’s more important than ever that the state expands access to safe, affordable housing during these difficult times. “This project is going to result in nearly 300 new affordable and supportive housing units that will help hundreds of our friends and neighbors in Central Brooklyn, and the State will continue to find ways to support the New Yorkers who need it most as we address the unprecedented challenges of today.” 