Public Works Authority in Qatar ‘Ashghal’ has announced that Infrastructure projects in Al Kharaitiyat and Izghawa (Package 2) located west of Al Shamal Roadin Qatar have commenced According to Eng. Abdulla Ali Al-Naemi, Al Kharaitiyat and Izghawa Projects Manager at Ashghal’s Roads Projects Department, the project provides services for 1386 residential plots in Al Kharaitiyat and Izghawa areas through the provision of developed infrastructure services and enhanced local streets to improve the traffic flow and provide connectivity to future public facilities that will be established in the area. “The newly launched project involves developing a roads network with a total length of 45.4km equipped with road safety features and street lighting as well as road signs and marking. The project will also feature 6900 car parking bays,” he said. Also Read: AIIB approves US $165.5m loan to improve roads in Uzbekistan The project scope includes a 35-km surface and groundwater drainage network, 22 km of Treated Sewerage Effluent (TSE) network along with a 12-km potable water network. In addition, new sewage pipelines along with a new system to ensure the flow distribution will be provided and connected with Qatar’s main sewage network, to provide proper protection for the entire area against flooding and excess rainfall. Eng. Abdulla Al-Naemi further added that it has been planned that the project will use local materials and elements that will be supplied by local manufacturers. “These local materials include gabbro, lighting poles and luminaires, directional signs in addition to sewage, surface water and rain water drainage pipes, asphalt, concrete, rebar and prefabricated manholes. The project is also targeting to achieve 85% of local materials used in the construction works, in line with the Public Works Authority’s support to local manufacturers and Ta’heel initiative which was launched in 2017,” he affirmed. The project construction works is divided into four geographical zones which will be carried out successively. The duration of each phase will be one year while the full completion of the project is scheduled for Q2 2024. The Roads and Infrastructure in Al Kharaitiyat and Izghawa Project (Package 2) is being implemented by UrbaCon and InfraRoad Joint Venture, at a cost of approximately US $137m.