Kusile is a coal-fired power station close to the existing Kendal power station in the Delmas municipal area of the Mpumalanga province South Africa. It is the second most advanced coal-fired power plant project in Eskom after Medupi power station in Lephalale. As a rule, a coal-fired power station takes about eight years to build. The over US $7bn station will consist of six units each rated at approximately 800MW installed capacity giving a total of 4800MW. As such it will be one of the largest coal-fired power stations in the world, once finished. The power station will be coal fired, with the coal supplied by a new colliery near the power station. Below is the Kusile power station timeline and all you need to know about the project from beginning to the present date. Also Read: Medupi Power Project timeline and what you need to know Department of Environmental Affairs & Tourism issued a positive Record of Decision. As a rule, a coal-fired power station takes about eight years to build; the project was not expected to complete Unit 1 until 2017 (approximately 8 years after initial works began) and the entire project not until 2021. Black and Veatch was appointed as the project engineer for construction. Hitachi Power Africa awarded the boiler contract worth US $1.1bn. Alstom S&E awarded the turbine island works contract valued at US $777.6m. Black & Veatch Corp. Awarded approval for US $805.6m in financing from the U.S. Export-Import Bank. In May, Eleven contractor vehicles, seven offices, two large mobile cranes, and the west wing of the KCW office block were set alight, vehicles stoned, and offices and stores looted. This caused major delays in the implementation of the project. 300 ton 910 MVA Generator Step-up Transformer placed on its foundation, assembled with all its Auxiliary systems and filled with 128 000 Litres of Mineral Oil. All Electrical integrity tests were performed successfully to confirm that the transformer was ready to receive power. In February 1400 employees reported absent due to labor disputes causing further delays. Unit 1 achieves commercial power. Unit 2 was synchronised to the national grid. In August, a fire breaks out at the station amidst tensions with unions over pay increases causing damage. This also caused further delays. The governments Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan announced a forensic probe into delays and cost overruns on the completion of Kusile and Medupi Power Stations. Unit 3 was synchronised to the national grid. In November South African investigative journalist Pieter-Louis Myburgh published an article in the Daily Maverick detailing an alleged slush fund corruption scandal involving Eskom executives and at least four contractors. The scandal involved contracts worth a combined US $598m resulting in an estimated US $4.5m being lost due to irregular activities. By the time of the publication of Myburgh’s article the construction of Kusile was five years past its original completion date and an estimated US $5.4bn over budget.