Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy continues leading the way in India, one of the largest onshore markets in the world, with the introduction of its next generation wind turbine, the SG 3.4-145. The new wind turbine is specifically designed and optimized for wind conditions in the country, and has a clear objective to deliver the lowest possible Levelized Cost of Energy (LCoE) with high reliability. The turbine is strongly positioned to cater to the needs of the auction market and aims to further drive the growth of wind power in India. “The Indian market is evolving fast and so adapting to the new market dynamics is key to our success and long-term competitiveness. The SG 3.4-145 – an incremental innovation, is a step forward in that direction. The long-term fundamentals of the wind industry remain strong and this new turbine means Siemens Gamesa is uniquely positioned to help our customers achieve their renewable energy goals, reinforce our leading position in the market and accelerate the cause for renewables,” stated Alfonso Faubel, Siemens Gamesa Onshore CEO. Also Read: Siemens Gamesa selects consortium for construction of wind turbine plant in Le Havre The new wind turbine is an extension of the Siemens Gamesa 3.X platform, of which the company has installed more than 3GW globally, and will be manufactured in its facilities in India starting in early 2021. The new model has been upgraded with the 145-meter rotor of the Siemens Gamesa 4.X platform thanks to its modularity, increasing the swept area by 41% and the AEP by 48%, compared to the previous SG 2.2-122. This rotor is already under production in India and the combination of known and proven technologies has enabled Siemens Gamesa to drive the market into the 3MW segment, with the most competitive and reliable solution for projects in India. The SG 3.4-145 stands 127.5m tall, with a blade-tip height of 200m, which helps it to maximize wind potential at every site. Furthermore, the turbine is designed to adapt to India’s extreme and varying weather conditions supported by an advanced monitoring and cooling system, which ensures efficient thermal conditioning and performance at high-temperature sites. Siemens Gamesa has operated in India since 2009, and the base installed by the company recently surpassed the 6.5 GW mark. The company has two blade factories in Nellore (Andhra Pradesh), and Halol (Gujarat), a nacelle factory in Mamandur (Chennai, Tamil Nadu), and an operations & maintenance center in Red Hills (Chennai, Tamil Nadu). It also has an R&D center in Bangalore where it employs over 100 engineers.