The governments of Kenya and Uganda signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) in October 2009 to construct a Standard Gauge Railway line from Mombasa to Kampala. A tripartite agreement was signed by the governments of Kenya, Uganda and Rwanda in August 2013 to fast track the development of the railway to their respective capital cities. SGR Kenya is proposed to connect Mombasa to Malaba on the border with Uganda and continue onward to Kampala, Uganda’s capital city. It will further run to Kigali in Rwanda with a branch line to Juba in South Sudan. Branch lines along the route will extend to Kisumu, Kasese and Pakwach. It was conceived as a flagship project under the Kenya Vision 2030 development agenda. It will simplify transport operations across the borders and reduce travel costs, in addition to benefiting the economies of Kenya and the neighbouring countries. The single-track standard gauge railway between Mombasa and Nairobi has a route length of around 480km and a total length of 609km. It runs through the counties of Mombasa, Kilifi, Kwale, Taita-Taveta, Makueni, Kajiado, Machakos and Nairobi. The Class 1 line runs parallel to the existing meter gauge railway and the Mombasa-Nairobi Road or A109 Highway for the most part. It deviates at certain points to attain the desired gradient and curvature. The construction of the line involved long viaducts, deep cuttings and high embankments to ensure safe operations across the steep incline and ragged terrain of the Miritini to Mazeras section. Also Read: Lagos-Kano SGR project timeline and what you need to know With 120km of the line traversing through Kenya’s Tsavo National Park, 14 wildlife channels were also built. Terminal passenger stations are located at Mombasa and Nairobi, while intermediate stations are located at Mariakani, Voi, Mtito Andei, Sultan Hamud, Athi River, Emali, Miasenyi and Kibwezi. The railway line is designed to carry 22 million tonnes a year of cargo or a projected 40% of Mombasa Port throughput by 2035. The freight terminals will be located at the Mombasa port and the Inland Container Depots at Embakasi in Nairobi. Main construction works on the Mombasa-Nairobi SGR line began in December 2014 with China Road and Bridge Corporation (CRBC) being the primary contractor. This particular phase cost US $3.8bn. China Exim Bank contributed around 90% of the financing while the remaining 10% was provided by the Kenyan Government. The railway line opened in 2017. In the second phase, an extension from Nairobi to Naivasha was built. The 120km modern railway line whose construction was overseen by the China Communications Construction Company (CCC), kicked off in October 2016. This particular phase cost US $1.5bn and was opened in October 2019. Naivasha-Kisumu section is to follow next. The 262km line, passes through Suswa, Narok, Bomet, Nyamira to end at Kisumu. The design of the project includes upgrading the port of Kisumu. This section of the SGR is budgeted US $3.7bn, funded with a loan from Exim Bank of China. 