Egypt’s new administrative capital is located 45km east of Cairo on the way to the port City of Suez. The project is supposed to offer thousands of jobs and stimulate the economy. When complete the new capital is expected to accommodate a population of 5 million people solving the chronic congestion issue in current capital Cairo. Below is the Medupi Power Project timeline and all you need to know about the project from beginning to the present date. Below is Egypt’s new administrative capital project timeline and all you need to know about the project from beginning to the present date. Also Read: Medupi Power Project timeline and what you need to know A memorandum of understanding was signed in 2015 between UAE based Capital City Planners and the government of Egypt to undertake the US $58bn project that would give rise to a modern, new city in Egypt to replace the old. The announcement was received with excitement but  scepticism still remained and would be validated in September the same year when the MOU was withdrawn by the government siting lack of progress on the part of Capital City Planners. A new MOU later the same year was then signed with China State Construction Engineering Corporation (CSCEC) with the main focus being centred around putting up buildings that would house government ministries and agencies as well as the president’s office. The Chinese were to build a new parliament complex, 12 ministerial buildings, a convention center and an exhibition area at what is believed would be a whooping US $45bn. This would undoubtedly form the nucleus from which the rest of the city would grow as demand for other amenities such as housing and shopping would stem. The Chinese pulled out of the MoU with the housing ministry siting disagreement over price. The government signed construction contracts with local companies including Arab Contractors who were contracted to construct water supply and sewage lines and also residential buildings. The government of Egypt through the country’s Ministry of Antiquities signed a cooperation protocol with Almasa Group for the construction of a new grand museum near the near the pyramids. President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi inaugurated Egypt and Middle East’s largest cathedral called “The Nativity of Christ” in the NAC and a mega mosque called “Al-Fattah Al-Aleem Mosque” the second largest in the world after the Great Mosque of Mecca in Saudi Arabia. Soon after Covid -19 (coronavirus) hit Egypt in early April, president Abdel Fattah al-Sisi postponed construction to curb the spread of the deadly disease. However, officials sought to keep the mega-projects going to protect jobs. Construction has since resumed but on a smaller scale, utilizing the shift system.