The National government of the Republic of Kenya through the state-owned Kenya National Highways Authority (KeNHA), a corporation charged with the mandate to manage, develop, rehabilitate and maintain national roads is set to construct three new footbridges on Ngong Road in Nairobi. The agency published a tender notice last month which was valid until mid this month inviting proposals for the construction of the new bridges along Ngong Road Phase I and II, particularly at the Kenyatta National Hospital (KNH) entrance, at the St. Mark Coptic Orthodox Church, and at the Kenya Science Teachers College near the Junction Mall. Also Read: Kenya in search of a consultancy firm for Nairobi Expressway Project The erection of the footbridges in question will be a major boost to Kura’s citywide initiative geared towards improving pedestrian convenience and safety. They will particularly help patients, students, and other road users to reach their destinations safely and assist in the reduction of the traffic jams caused by vehicles that are forced to slow down for pedestrians to pass, especially around the earmarked regions. The implementation of the project, which includes the construction of a concrete ramp, a staircase, and a 28-meter superstructure with a concrete flat base,  is expected to be completed within a period of 18 months. The entire Ngong road is currently undergoing expansion and general refurbishment. The construction works on its 1st and 2nd phases were undertaken by a Japanese firm known as World Kaihatsu Kogyo Company Ltd. The first phase is a 2.5 kilometers section between the Kenya National Library and Prestige Plaza while the second phase is a 4 kilometers stretch between Prestige Plaza and Dagoreti Corner. The construction works of the two phases were completed in December 2017 and April 2019 respectively. The third and the last phase, a 9.8-kilometer section from Dagoretti Corner to Karen shopping center, is being executed by China Qinjian International Group. The project is reportedly nearing completion and it features five footbridges, with walkways and cycle tracks on both sides.