Coastal GasLink has selected Aecon as its prime contractor for construction of the Wilde Lake Compressor and Meter Stations and the Kitimat Meter Station in British Columbia that will become the anchor points of the natural gas pipeline. This announcement comes as the project is poised to launch the summer construction program and see first pipe put in the ground as early as July. “This project award underscores Aecon’s reputation as a preferred contractor with key clients and demonstrates our recognized expertise delivering a diverse range of critical infrastructure projects through Aecon’s Industrial operating sector,” said Jean-Louis Servranckx, President and Chief Executive Officer, Aecon Group Inc. “Aecon is currently working in joint venture on Spreads 3 and 4 of the Coastal GasLink Pipeline project and we look forward to safely and successfully delivering this crucial part of the project,” he added. “We are pleased to welcome Aecon to our high-quality team of prime contractors that’s been assembled to safely and effectively deliver this world class project,” said David Pfeiffer, Coastal GasLink’s President. Facilities are key pieces of infrastructure and important components for a natural gas pipeline, as they ensure that natural gas moves through the pipeline safely and efficiently. The initial phase of the Coastal GasLink Project includes the Wilde Lake Compressor and Meter Stations and the Kitimat Meter Station. “Aecon brings a wealth of experience constructing pipeline facilities, and similar to our pipeline contractors, they share our commitment to creating an extraordinary legacy of safety and respect for all people, communities and the environment,” added Pfeiffer. Also Read: Chinese independent utility Foran Energy signs gas supply deal with BP Construction of the Wilde Lake facility will kick off in July 2020, as part of the summer construction program, which will see a measured and gradual ramp up of work across the route over the coming weeks and months and peak activity in September. Work over the coming weeks will focus on environmental monitoring and field work, grading, grubbing and workforce accommodation establishment to position the project for pipe assembly and installation later in the summer. Pipe deliveries will also continue with pipe stringing and assembly commencing as early as July in multiple areas across the project, although the project’s first in-field pipeline weld took place in Kitimat earlier this month. With this work, comes additional workforce requirements as the summer construction ramp up in July will require as many as 1,700 workers, which is anticipated to grow to over 2,500 by the end of August. Together with other prime contractors, Coastal GasLink is following through on its commitment to hiring qualified workers from local communities and is working to ensure that Indigenous and local people who want to work on the project have an opportunity to participate.