Tanzania has appointed three companies to carry out the construction works of Rumakali and Ruhudji hydropower projects and several transmission lines in the Njombe region of the East African country. This is through the state-owned electricity utility (Tanzania Electric Supply Company Limited (Tanesco)) whose operations are regulated by the Ministry of Energy and Minerals, The appointed companies are a Multiconsult Norge AS, a subsidiary of Multiconsult-one of the leading firms of consulting engineers and designers in Norway and Scandinavia, and Norplan Tanzania Company Limited as well as Tanzania Photomap both of which are local companies providing consulting and surveying services respectively. The former is the lead company while the others are the sub-contractors in the project implementation. Commenting on the appointment, Hilde Gillebo, the Vice President of Multiconsult’s Energy Division said that his company is proud to be part of Tanzania’s energy development and that it is an honor to walk the country towards its power stability. Also Read: Tanzania’s First Wind Farm Completed. The total value of the contract is over US$ 6M. It covers the review and updating of feasibility studies, the design and preparation of tender documents, and the preparation of an Environmental and Social Impact Assessment study for the Rumakali and Ruhudji hydropower projects. According to the Tanzanian authorities, the appointed companies will begin work immediately and the stipulated date for the completion of projects in the second quarter of 2021. Upon completion of the Rumakali and Ruhudji hydropower projects, the plants will have capacities of 222 MW and 358 MW respectively and will increase the African country electricity production capacity from 562 MW to 1142 MW. The project’s main objective is to help the country to meet its growing demand for electricity and its aim to achieve an electrification rate of 75% by 2035. Currently, barely 36.6% of the Tanzanian population has access to electricity.