Chapman Taylor is creating the masterplan for an innovative new urban district adjacent to King Abdulaziz International Airport in the Saudi city of Jeddah. Known as Airport City, it will be a world-class, mixed-use development which will become a leading destination for visitors from across Saudi Arabia and the GCC region. The 1.91 million m² GBA masterplan for Airport City introduces an innovative mixed-use community concept to the region, creating diverse tourism and business opportunities while also providing a dynamic lifestyle and family entertainment venue. The scheme will deliver a dynamic and sustainable mix of provisions around a central avenue, which links the airport’s railway station to the airport’s dedicated mosque. Included within the masterplan are shops, leisure and entertainment functions, healthcare clinics, private residences, a financial district, an artisans’ district, a green food yard and a central artists’ district. A “Saudi Dreams” centre will provide an ideal showcase for the Kingdom’s culture and ambitions. Also Read: Largest P3 social infrastructure project in US history completed at UC Merced The Airport City masterplan vision creates a sustainable new-generation city district, unique for its human scale and fully pedestrianised urban community, with a perfect synergy between landscape and architecture. The masterplan design emphasises plug & play flexibility and high connectivity, with designs inspired by nature, history and traditional local architecture and art, in addition to careful planning, well-curated community spaces and an in-depth understanding of user requirements. Green spaces and water features are provided throughout the development, along with public squares, a village street, botanic gardens, a family promenade and other beautifully landscaped areas. A vibrant transport orientated development creates a new hub gateway to Jeddah and beyond at the strategically important meeting point of the airport, high-speed railway station and the motorway junction between central Jeddah and the Northern Expansion Zone. Chapman Taylor is designing this transport-orientated urban development on behalf of client SARH Airport Development and Real Estate Investment, together with AE Prime as a lead consultant and project manager.