Plans have been unveiled for a luxury multifamily community ‘The Canopy’ at Fenton, a 69-acre mixed-use destination underway in Cary, North Carolina. The development comprises of 357 luxury apartments above a mix of shopping, dining and entertainment, with all residences expected to deliver in 2022. Rising six stories, the Class-A multifamily community will offer a variety of studio, one-, two- and three-bedroom floorplans at market rates, as well as four loft-style units located on the ground floor. The Canopy at Fenton will be among the first new developments in Cary to vertically integrate multifamily above retail and dining, creating a dense, urban street environment. Also Read: Construction of 100 Claremont Avenue in New York, US set to start In addition to living just steps away from Wegmans, some of the best chef-driven restaurants and top retail and entertainment, residents will have access to a multistory fitness center, coworking lounge, club room, elevated pool deck and five common terraces that overlook the shops and eateries of Fenton. 47 of the apartments will provide exclusive, private terraces. According to Paul Zarian, director for Hines, the developer, The Canopy at Fenton will introduce a walkable, cosmopolitan living experience to the heart of the Triangle. “Whether meeting friends for dinner at one of Fenton’s chef-driven restaurants, enjoying a fitness class on one of the greenspaces, walking to work at the office buildings across Fenton Main Street or simply enjoying views from their homes, residents of The Canopy will be able to participate in all that Fenton has to offer,” he said. Fenton’s pedestrian-focused master plan features artful paseos, active dining patios, varied storefronts, gathering areas programmed with events, and landscapes and hardscapes that contribute to the vibrancy of the street. An elevator ride away, residents will enjoy chef Scott Crawford’s Crawford Brothers Steakhouse, Steve Palmer’s Italian restaurant Colletta, Ford Fry’s tex-mex concept Superica and Michael Lee’s M Sushi. Other tenants include anchors Wegmans and CMX CinéBistro, as well as Honeysuckle Gelato, Sephora, Free People, Bailey’s Fine Jewelry and Blo Salon. Fenton is located at I-40 and Cary Towne Boulevard. With site work underway and vertical construction set to begin this year, the first phase will include approximately 345,000 square feet of shops, restaurants and entertainment, 170,000 square feet of office space and a 175-key boutique hotel, in addition to the multifamily residences. Leasing at The Canopy at Fenton is expected to begin in the spring of 2022.