The famous saying ‘Beauty is in the eye of the beholder’ has a literal meaning – people will always be more open to appealing and beautiful things. Why not use this philosophy and apply it to your home so that you can earn more money? When it comes to selling your home, nothing betters the exterior of your house. Start from yourself – would you rather own beautiful home or a house with a dull exterior? Curb appeal is a crucial factor when it comes to increasing the value of your house. You can achieve high exterior appeal with some time, a few tips, and a small investment. Here is how. Whenever you want to improve the look of your space, you should deal with light first. Good lighting will create a particular atmosphere that can arouse certain emotions. Great lighting options can improve the overall ambiance of your house, and people will notice it. Add soft light to highlight the house’s architecture and ground lights to accent high bushes and trees. Don’t forget the porch light to create a welcome glow. Home is a warm and safe place, and your home should show it. This might surprise you, but a well-landscaped home can help you sell your house faster and for a higher price than a house with no landscaping. If you want to increase your home value by 3%-7%, you should maintain and polish a bit of the landscape area around your home. Trim the hedges every month Trim trees regularly Plant whenever possible Fertilize plants and grass If possible, hire from time to time a full-service lawn care team Keeping your roof debris-free and durable is mandatory when it comes to home maintenance. It’s essential to keep your roof in order so that you can keep the walls and indoor areas, such as attic and interior ceiling, water-free. Some studies showed that a completely new roof could increase the value of a home up to $12,000. If you can afford it, think about replacing the entire roof. Otherwise, you should repair your roof, and keep it leaks-free. Inspect shingles Trim branches Unclog gutters Prevent ice dams Caulk the flashings You might think that your current garage doors are perfect, but upgrading them will make others see them as excellent also. If you are searching for a significant house boost, upgrading your garage doors is a must. While you are there painting or fixing your garage doorspainting or fixing your garage doors, take a look inside the garage as well. See if you can organize inside the garage. Try to make it more appealing, and create more space. People love to see the good usage of space; it can give them ideas and show them true space potential. The very first thing that you should do when it comes to windows is to clean them. Make your windows super clean, and replace old curtains with a new one that can provide more natural light. If possible, place beautiful flower pots on the outdoor window side to present your home more appealing. Did you know that the right window style can increase the value of your home? This simple action can boost your home’s value. For example, if you spend $10,000 to replace your home’s window, your home could rise in an amount of up to $10,000. Plus, putting new windows, better windows, of course, can do wonders for energy efficiency and save new owners money in the long run. You can always mention that to a potential buyer.