The Infrastructure Specialist Group (ISG), which comprises Technicrete and Rocla has donated a 12 metre fully insulated containerised open plan office unit as well as paving to the Sifunindlela Primary School, based at Kabokweni in Mpumalanga Province. The office unit will be used by the school’s principal, Mr Ndhlovu and some of the school’s administration staff. The 1 x 12.22 m x 2.44 m x 2.59 m container is fully insulated with 40mm polystyrene, has four aluminium sliding windows (900 mm x 1200 mm) – complete with fitted burglar bars – and a steel panel entrance door with a lock set. Principal Ndhlovu explained “Sifunindlela Primary School has never had offices for staff, staff have in the past, met for meetings in passages or under the Lapa. Now, with the donation of this containerised office unit we have privacy for meetings with staff and visitors. It enables us to house school records and confidential correspondence properly. We are very grateful to Rocla and Technicrete for these donations. It creates a proper working environment for myself and members of my team, making a difference to how we work and giving us all a sense of pride in the school we are managing”. “In 2019 ISG donated 16 sanitation units manufactured by Rocla to the Sifunindlela Primary School, because we believe that proper sanitation in schools provides human dignity. It was during this project that we became aware of the fact that Principal Ndhlovu had no dedicated office space not only for himself but also for some of his administrative staff “commented ISG Group Marketing and Communications Manager, Malebusa Sebatane. “ISG decided to donate this fully insulated open plan office space to the school to assist in providing a secure and stable office environment for Principal Ndhlovu to carry out his duties” said Sebatane, adding “Technicrete has also donated 2,574 m2   of our Double Zig Zag 60 mm grey paving and financed a local contractor to clear the ground work and install the paving around the school and new office”. “In the past the primary school children have been subjected to high levels of dust from the dirt tracks around the premises, which the Technicrete paving will help reduce if not eliminate completely. Installation is from the entrance to the primary school, around the art class and around the netball fields. The paving will improve the health and wellbeing of these young children in a big way in addition to creating safer and more durable walkways” concluded Principal Ndhlovu. The containerised open plan office space is fitted with a 220V Distribution Board, 4 x 4 ft vapor proof lights, 4 x double switch plugs, a single light switch, 1 x 1800 BTU type air conditioner. The unit has rubberised flooring with black pigmentation. The exterior of the unit has been wire brushed, primed and painted in A/D white enamel. “Education in South Africa is of paramount importance, if ISG, in some way, can make a difference by providing a suitable environment for educators to perform their duties in and safe and hygienic sanitation units for learners like those we have met at Sifunindlela Primary School, then we believe we have a played a part in the general upliftment of their environment” concluded Sebatane.  