The government of Kenya through the ministry of Housing and Urban Development invites bids for the construction of the proposed Nairobi Railway City, which is intended to expand the Central Business District. This tender notice comes approximately two months after the annunciation of the formation of the Railway City Development Authority (RCDA), a special purpose vehicle for the project, and an implementation committee which would spearhead the operation of the Authority, develop a framework for the actualizing of the railway city, and identify anchor projects and investors. All bids from interested and eligible candidates must be received on or before the 20th of August this year, according to the ministry. Also Read: World-class urban district ‘Airport City’ to be developed in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia The iconic multi-modal, transit-oriented, urban development project consisting of a new railway station that allows for the integration of BRT and other public transport modes as well as other commercial developments including skyscrapers, residential flats, a cultural center, and a museum, is part of the Nairobi Integrated Urban Development Plan. It will be implemented in three phases within a span of 20 years on a 425-acre piece of land stretching from Haile Selassie Avenue, Uhuru Highway, Bunyala Road, Commercial Street, and Landhies Road. The first phase entails the construction of meeting, incentive conferences, and exhibitions facilities along Bunyala Road. This phase will be executed between this year and 2023. The second phase will be the construction of an economic zone comprising of hi-tech industries and small and medium enterprises while the third and the final phase, the East core, will be the construction of a residential complex featuring a school, park, and affordable housing units. Upon completion, the economic free zone is expected to create more than 200,000 employment opportunities while the residential complex is expected to accommodate approximately 28,000 residents. This project will be the largest and most ambitious development ever to be undertaken in the metropolitan region since independence and is expected to attract local and international private capital.