A 45MW solar power project has been completed in Ninh Thuan Province, Vietnam. The solar power plant that was constructed by Sharp Energy Solutions Corporation (SESJ) is expected to increase the country’s annual power generation capacity to 76MW per year. The solar power plant is going to be operational by the begin of July and is estimated to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 25,458 t-CO2 every year. A collaboration with various companies including T&T Group Joint Stock Company (T&T) and T&T affiliate Ninh Thuan Energy Industry Joint Stock Company made the construction of the project come to reality after years of planning. Also Read: Dongwha Enterprise constructs first independent production facility in Hanoi, Vietnam. The completion of the 45MW solar power plant project in Vietnam brings the annual power generation by the country to an equivalent of over 40,000 households. The plant is in line with the Vietnamese government’s plan to increase the country’s power generation to 12,00MW by 2030. The country is also looking to investing in floating solar power plants and has already installed 47MW of floating PV. Vietnam and South Asia’s largest solar project currently under construction is the 600 MW Dau Tieng Solar Power Complex, located in Tay Ninh province, approximately 100 km outside Ho Chi Minh City. In June 2019, Dau Tieng 1 and Dau Tieng 2 achieved commercial operation and began delivering power to the Vietnamese state-owned utility company, Electricity Vietnam (EVN). In September 2019, Dau Tieng 3 went online and brought an additional 150 MW of generation capacity with it. The Dau Tieng project was developed by Dau Tieng Tay Ninh Energy JSC, a joint venture of Vietnam’s Xuan Cau and the Thai conglomerate B. Grimm Power Public Company Limited, with the engineering, procurement construction (EPC) work undertaken by Powerchina Huadong Engineering Corporation Limited. In the Ninh Thuan province, the centre of Vietnam’s solar energy boom, the Trung Nam Group (a Vietnamese conglomerate) announced not too long ago that it would begin the construction of a 450 MW solar farm, which will make it one of the largest in Southeast Asia.