Octagon is a first for Birmingham and unique in the UK and beyond. Offering a mix of 346 spacious new homes in the first pure octagonal high-rise residential building in the world. Making the most of its location on the Birmingham ridge, Octagon’s collection of high quality, spacious homes will offer uninterrupted views across the city. Taller than the city’s BT Tower and instantly recognisable from across Birmingham, Octagon will be a unique 49 storey, 155 metre, build-to-rent scheme. We hope it will add to the city’s family of distinct shaped, modernist designs including the Rotunda and Alpha Tower, both of which are now Grade II listed buildings. Also Read: Planning consent for next residential phase at Watford Riverwell in UK achieved The Octagon will offer homes of unparalleled individuality with every apartment enjoying a generous 13m facet of the Octagon, a first ever for a residential development. It will incorporate a number of affordable homes for rent as part of the overall mix of one, two- and three-bedroom units. Our ambition is to design sustainable, healthy homes with the wellbeing of the residents and quality of their life in mind. The Octagon’s design offers homes with a much larger than average outlook, bringing in ample daylight into the ‘radial’ arrangement of the internal spaces. The generous sizes of the homes coupled with their wedge-shaped layout make these habitable spaces bright and airy as well as a naturally ventilated façade for user comfort. From a build perspective, the octagon form has many holistic benefits including a lower wall-to-floor ratio, a central core to provide structural stability and shorter distribution of services, all of which contribute to a ‘less is more’ approach. According to Glenn Howells Architects‘ partner Dav Bansal the horizontal expression of the façade enables the internal rooms to open up to panoramic views of the city and the residents will also enjoy access to a wellness hub, workout studios and private lounges. With maximum eight apartments on a floor, the quality on offer is a perfect fit for Octagon. “The setting within the city’s most ambitious mixed-use development gives Octagon a unique quality of life proposition and benefits from some amazing amenities. Paradise is about many things, including re-connecting the city and adding to the life and vitality of the city centre. By providing new homes here we are making the most of what Paradise has to offer as well as helping the city meet its housing needs with a bespoke offer,” he affirmed.