Construction of a substation in Kenitra city Morocco by the state owned National Office of Electricity and Drinking Water (ONEE) has been completed. The construction of the 60/22KV substation is located in a city in the northern coastal region of the North African country. The substation is constructed on the site of the Automotive Induver Morocco (AGC), a company specializing in the manufacture of automotive glazing. It features two 60 KV outgoing bays, one 60 KV busbar, two complete 60/22 KV transformer bays and two 60/22KV power transformers of 25MVA each. Furthermore, ONEE plans to build two 60 KV underground lines of 3.7 km each, from the 60/22KV Atlantic Free Zone Investment substation, as well as two 60/22KV spans at the Atlantic Free Zone Investment substation. Also Read: Morocco launches tender for construction of 400 MWp solar power plants The construction of the substation in Kenitra city Morocco is a part of the actions put in place by the state owned enterprise to support the country’s industrial sector through the development of electrical energy supply projects. The Office National de l’Electricité et de l’Eau Potable (ONEE) is a major player in the electricity and water sector in Morocco. The agency is at the heart of a strategic and vital public service for the improvement of economic competitiveness of the North African country as well as of the living conditions of the people residing in it. Since the mid-1990s, ONEE has been on all fronts from the generalization of access to electricity and drinking water to sewage treatment and liquid sanitation service development as well as modernization and expansion of networks of production, the marketing and distribution of electrical and hydraulic resources, fight against waste and implementation of new instruments and techniques for saving water and electricity amongst other things. In regards to electricity, the company had a total installed capacity of more than 8,700 MW as of January 2018, serving over 5.6 million Moroccans.