Tanzania’s Minister for Information, Arts, Culture and Sports Mr. Harrison Mwakyembe has revealed that the country’s proposed Dodoma Stadium project has moved closer to the construction stage following the completion of seismic, topographical and feasibility studies which had to be repeated to ensure maximum safety of the structure and the spectators. Also Read: Dodoma stadium in Tanzania to become largest stadium in Africa The project has been in the pipeline since 2017 after King Mohamed VI of Morocco pledged to build the biggest stadium in the East African country following his visit in 2016. Mr. Harrison Mwakyembe revelation was prompted by Special Seats MP Felister Bura (CCM), who was concerned about how the construction work on the sports venue had taken long to kick off. Mwakyembe explained that Dodoma city is prone to earthquakes and therefore his ministry had a huge task of conducting seismic, topographical and feasibility studies, which for accuracy purposes, they had to be repeated. “As of now we have completed all the essential surveys and I have personally submitted the reports to President John Magufuli, detailing information about the location and characteristics of geological structures beneath the Earth’s surface, where the structure will be set up. With that the state is set to advance into the construction stage,” noted the Minister for Information, Arts, Culture and Sports. Mwakyembe also mentioned that the national government has already acquired land for Dodoma Stadium project, which is even more than the initial hectors needed. The proposed mega stadium upon completion will have the capacity to accommodate between 85, 000 to 100, 000 spectators, more than any other stadium in the continent. The delivery of the new stadium will put Tanzania in a better position to bid for hosting major continental events such as the Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON), African Canadian Soccer & Cultural Association (ACSCA), as well as other top athletics events such as All African Games and World Athletics championships.