China Construction (CSCEC) Eighth Engineering Division has created a ‘smart site’ using the latest 5G telecom network. The site is all about high efficiency and extra safety guarantee for construction workers by connecting people, equipment and processes on the construction site. The overall architecture of the 5G smart site solution is supported by a 5G telecom network and various advanced technologies, such as artificial intelligence (AI), blockchain, and Internet of Things (IoT). A 5G network is used to interact with the building platform to learn the health information of each worker and judge whether they meet the requirements for working on site. The health analysis system on site can detect more than 10 physiological indicators, such as blood pressure and electrocardiography, and issue physical examination reports. Also Read: China to strengthen high-tech application in road construction Moreover, the 5G AI glasses can give users’ location information, allowing engineers to have remote site inspection and remote communication. During the COVID-19 pandemic, these cutting-edge technologies provided effective site management. Panoramic monitoring can also identify dangerous elements, such as fireworks, and give timely alarms. The crane driver can see the real-time transmitted picture outside of the crane and reduce accidents. According to Zhao Canzhen, chief project engineer of the First Company of China Eighth Engineering Division, by using 5G, they can realize the supervision of both sides of the real-name system, the monitoring of tower cranes, and the multi-dimensional security monitoring system. In combination with the AI function, they can also identify if people are wearing masks on site. Mr. Canzhen further added that they will carry out this layout and continuously explore and promote 5G to different scenarios in each of our projects. “We are going to combine blockchain, unmanned operation, robot construction and other applications in the field,” he affirmed.