History consists of countless fragments of time, lost in the restoration of temporal fragments, often referring to a period of resurrected history, spliced and carefully combed, whereby the city offers fresh charms to the depths of history. Conducted jointly by Zhu Peidong of gad·line+studio, Lee WeiMin of LWMA, and Ge Yaxi of LSD, creating a paramount project, the “Jin ” Life Aesthetics Hall of Greentown’s Magnificent Residence evokes the Hangzhou silk weaving culture, and presents the concept of “a cottage of silk flowing like water” from exterior to interior and decorations. Architectural Design – Design is the Essence and Nature Architect Zhu Peidong summed up the characteristics of the project with three words: rejuvenation, inheritance and good health. Rejuvenation: Throughout the building, there is a repeatedly strong contrast to today’s rapid industrial landscape. The project draws from the current aesthetic trend of electronic products, and the architectural border forms an order of magnitude reduction. Inheritance: designers inherit the traditional architectural vocabulary of Greentown, and enlighten in material, science, technology, aesthetic and other dimensions. Good health: people’s need to participate in the mapping of architectural elements, the most direct embodiment of which is the promotion of human feelings and comfort.  The front area’s architectural landscape design uses 18 iron-braided copper doors, connecting the hall with the surrounding block, and then the city, an obscure effect creating a feeling of hazy beauty. The design respects the mutual relationship brought by the project itself, and integrates the modern artistic sense of the front field into the gentle life of the back field, forming a resonance between the external landscape and the internal space.  Design is meant to properly meet the people’s current demands for function and emotion. In Li’s case, design expresses his own expectations of life, through the way the space is presented and shared with others. In order to ensure a unique and smooth landscape, designer Lee Wei Min divides the space into three parts: the reception and art exhibition area is the first part, the next is the sand table area, and the last is the wine area. Through the building screen’s axis and the courtyard waterscape, into the reception area of the living hall, green plants are arranged in order to create a mysterious sense of ceremony and order, so that the reception platform stands in suspension, turning the atmosphere to one of relaxed nature. In addition, walls in the reception area are covered with wood and other more natural colors, forming a buffer. “Even if the space has a lot of turning points without visual stagnation, it is nonetheless a conversion and extension.” Lee notes. The Sense of Order in Design is Essentially a Kind of Regularity Passing through the corridor into the sand table area, one can see through the clear glass the outdoor architectural landscape and screen directly, a spacious scene blended, creating a sense of ritual architectural space. In the overall tone palette, with a warm neutral color base, furniture is presented in the form of art, with color to create a humanistic, artistic atmosphere, breaking the boundary between space and nature. The moving lines in the sand table area abound in different space levels, at the same time the floating island terrace of the outdoor waterscape acts as an extension of the indoor space, creating the poetic feeling of a Hangzhou court. The long strips of water at the entrance reception table echo each other. The main wall at the bar, while fulfilling the visual aesthetics, combines with the art chandelier so that wine tasting and conversation become a romantic encounter.  The word “humanism” is the essence of the way of life overarching the oriental cultural tradition. Lee captures that humanistic spirit extremely acutely. In the physical overhead floor area, the designer links the landscape, architecture and interior by means of transition, creating a profoundly ceremonial entry space, which is used for public interaction. A multi-dimensional interactive space, often the life-oriented expression of blending art, here advocates neighbors’ communication and sharing of community, and forms an aesthetic space with a pyrotechnic atmosphere. In addition, light guides the moving line of the space, strengthening the design space’s order and appeal, continuing the elegant, extravagantly lively atmosphere. The end of the moving line is found deep in space. The designer does not draw the sentence point with thick ink and heavy color, but rather proceeds from complex to simple, step by step, with tolerance and openness to welcome the person who is about to return home. For soft design, Ge Yaxi had a low-key introverted design technique, with natural stone, leather and wood, conveying a deeply humanistic atmosphere. The Chun Yue Jin Lu of Greentown cherishes every inch of land, making a witness of time, to bear an attachment to the years, in the heart of Hangzhou, for a brocade-luxurious life. Project Name: The “Jin ” Life Aesthetics Hall of Greentown’s Magnificent Residence Project Location: Wenhui Sanliting, Xiacheng District, Hangzhou, China Interior: 810 square meters Project Year：2020 January Interior Design：LWM ARCHITECTS + Shanghai Yue Jie Principle designer：Lee WeiMin Company website: www.lwma.com Architecture design: gad · line+studio Decoration design: LSD interior design Project manager: Lin Tzping Designer team: Qiao Haibin , Dai Jing, Chen Haiyan, Zheng Bingwu 3D render: Zheng Renbo, Chen Fan, Hou Kai, Huang Yonghao Decoration: Tan Yongqin, Ji Feifan, Yan Hui, Xue Jing Photographer: Wang Ting