Some people wouldn’t dare touch a major renovation project by themselves and would instead call a reliable contractor to handle such cumbersome projects, while some can’t wait to tackle a grand DIY challenge. While there is nothing wrong with being a part of the former group, using your own construction tools and your own two hands to remodel your living environment is truly a unique and rewarding experience. What’s more, tackling the project yourself might minimize your overall expenses significantly seeing as how you’re not paying for a professional contractor and their crew. Aside from the fact that you need to learn the proper safety procedures when handling power tools and handling such projects, you also have to get the right tools and utilities to make your job as efficient and effective as possible. With that in mind, here are the most crucial tools you need in your remodeling inventory. Whether you’re driving a nail into a wall, screwing a fixture into place, or handling electrical wiring and those finicky little tasks, there’s no denying that hammers, screwdrivers, and various pliers should be in your toolbox. It might seem like an investment, but the more types you have, the easier the job will be because you never know when you might need electronic pliers or a claw hammer. These tools are a long-term investment because you’ll not only be using them on big house remodeling projects, but also for every subsequent DIY repair around the house. Nowadays, you can buy pre-built toolboxes that have every hammer, screwdriver, and plier imaginable to suit your every need. The most important of the bunch include the aforementioned claw hammer, long-nose, and electronic pliers, and of course, one of all six types of screwdrivers. Drilling is an essential part of any major house renovation, and even a major part of smaller DIY projects, whether you are introducing passive insulation features to beat the summer heat or if you’re remodeling the entire kitchen. The most functional and convenient of all drills, especially for home use, is of course the cordless power drill. A cordless power drill allows you to move around the house with ease and get the job done even if you have to turn the power off for safety reasons. A corded power drill is more powerful, granted, however the impracticality of this tool in a home environment far outweighs the benefits of having a few more volts at your disposal. With that in mind, be sure to find a versatile cordless power drill with a large battery and a decent voltage to get every job done quickly and without hassle. No construction site is complete without a table saw, because you are going to spend the majority of your time cutting various materials to fit your measurements and designs. Now, you could opt for a typical hand saw, however, this will make your work less precise and it will slow you down, particularly if you’re not versed in sawing per se. This is why having something functional yet powerful like a portable table saw is a far better option, but you have to make sure that you’re buying the right one for your needs, so be sure to check professional reviews and guides before making a purchase – after all, this thing is a long-term investment that should serve you for decades to come. Do your research, compare models, and buy a table saw that you can use for every project imaginable. One of the biggest problems for homeowners who are doing their own home remodeling projects is the accumulation of dust and debris in their homes, which as you may know, is a real pain to get rid of entirely. If you don’t know the proper methods for handling dust and debris on your “construction site” you can expect to find it in your living environment months and even years after completing the project, not to mention the potential health hazards of letting it linger in your home. Make sure to wear proper protective clothing, goggles and face masks, cover all furniture and amenities with tarp, and if you can, try to do all sawing and other heavy work outside. This will help prevent accumulation and most importantly, it will help keep hazardous airborne particles from your living environment. Last but not least, there’s nothing quite as satisfying and rewarding when you take a look at your freshly-painted home that simply radiates beauty and its newly-found luster. Now, even though painting the interior and exterior is a fun project, it’s still a cumbersome one as well, so you need the right set of tools to avoid making mistakes, minimize hazards, and maximize your investment. Be sure to get painter’s tape, an adjustable ladder, drop cloths, a paint tray, quality paint rollers with adjustable handles, and smaller brushes for those finicky touch-ups. Also prepare a scraper as well to make old paint removal easy and quick. Home remodeling projects are challenging to say the least when you decide to handle them yourself, but keep in mind that there’s nothing you can’t achieve with the right set of tools at your disposal. Be sure to get these tools and utilities to make your next home renovation a breeze.