The Government of the State of Lagos in Nigeria has shortlisted 10 firms out of the 32 eligible companies that responded to the call for Expression of Interest (EOI) and applied for the construction of the Fourth Mainland Bridge in Lagos. This was revealed in a joint statement released by Aramide Adeyoye and Ope George, the Special Adviser to the Governor on Works and Infrastructure, and Director-General of Office of Public-Private Partnerships respectively. Also Read: Nigeria to construct fourth Mainland Bridge The shortlisted firms include CCECC Nigeria Limited, CGGC-CGC Joint Venture, China Harbour Engineering Company Limited, China State Construction Engineering Corporation Nigeria Limited, IC ICTAS Insaat Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S. and Ingenieros Consultores, S.A., through Makais Energy. The others are Julius Berger Nigeria Plc, Mota-Engil and CCCC Consortium, Mutual Commitment Company Limited, and Power Construction Corporation of China. The Lagos State Government now plans to proceed to evaluate the applications in line with the evaluation criteria set out in the request for qualification and, thereafter, announce the successful pre-qualified bidders, who shall be eligible for participation in the next stage of the selection/bidding process, being the request for proposals stage. Upon completion, the Fourth Mainland Bridge in Lagos will connect people and improve their natural flow in large numbers through a reorganization of vehicular, waterways, and pedestrian modes of transportation. Featuring two levels, the bridge will serve as a means for vehicular traffic on its upper level and stimulate, and accommodate pedestrian, social, commercial, and cultural interactions on its lower level. Additionally, in conjunction with existing road networks, it will establish a primary ring road around Lagos which is expected to provide alternative traffic routes from Lekki to Ikorodu, Ikeja to Ajah, relieving the 3rd Mainland Bridge of its overstretched capacity. With the improved flow of people across Lagos, the city will be relieved of traffic congestion, and rather maximize its great opportunities and grow better.