Construction of the Gbarnga-Salayea road in Liberia will not be halted. This is after the authorities in Bong and Lofa Counties together with the China Henan International Cooperation Group (CHICO), a Chinese state-owned construction and engineering company, and the Armed Forces of Liberia (AFL) agreed not to stop the project despite the spread of coronavirus in the country. The decision was made during a meeting attended by Bong County Superintendent Esther Walker, AFL Commander in Bong County John Marshall, as well as local delegations from Lofa at CHICO’s premises in Zota District. The Bong County Superintendent urged CHICO to take into consideration all the necessary preventive measures put in place by the World Health Organization (WHO) and the Ministry of Health (MoH) of Liberia, and to maintain their current workforce and avoid recruiting new workers as a means of curtailing the spread of the virus at work. The construction of the Gbarnga-Salayea road consists of construction works to attain an all-weather asphalted road of an approximate length of about 81 km and a width of 7.5 m, (with 1.5 m. shoulders on each side) between Gbarnga, the capital city of Bong County in the northeast region of Monrovia and Salayea, one of the six districts located in Lofa County. Also Read: Construction of Ganta to Yekepa Road in Liberia moving on swiftly It also includes construction works of drainage facilities, reconstruction, or rehabilitation of bridges as well as the construction of protection, safety, and environmental protection facilities. The Liberia Ministry of Public Works is spearheading the over US$40M project, and it is funded by the Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa (BADEA), Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development (KEAED), OPEC Fund for International Development (OFID), and Saudi Fund for Development (SFD). It is under the supervision and consultancy of Saudi Consulting Services Co., (SAUDCONSULT) in association with Liberia’s Tristar Collaborative Engineering & Construction Consultant. China Henan International Cooperation Group Co.Ltd is the contractor. The main aim of the project is to enhance the economic and social development of the central region of Liberia as well as linking the country with the neighboring Republics of Guinea and Sierra Leone.