E-commerce giant Amazon has announced plans to construct a new fulfillment centre in the city of Wilmington, Delaware, creating over 1,000 jobs. Amazon first launched operations in New Castle in 1997 by opening the first fulfilment centre and the second Delaware fulfilment centre was launched in Middletown in 2012. Amazon will lease a built-to-suit building, developed by Dermody Properties at the site that was formerly used as an assembly plant by General Motors. The plant was closed in 2009 and it was demolished last year. According to Delaware Governor John Carney, Amazon already employs more than 2,500 Delawareans, and his administration welcomes additional investment that will result in more jobs for Delaware families – especially at vacant industrial sites that are ideal for redevelopment. Also Read: TSMC to build and operate US $12bn semiconductor Fab in Arizona, US The new facility will span more than 820,000ft² on the ground floor. Employees at the site will work alongside robotics technology to pick, pack and ship smaller customer items including books, electronics, small household goods and toys. Additionally, the e-commerce company will also hire for roles across human resources, operations management, safety, security, finance and information technology. Amazon North America robotics fulfilment centres director Ryan Smith said that the First State was home to Amazon’s first fulfilment centre 23 years ago. “I’m proud to see the continued growth and investment in Delaware with our newest fulfilment centre in Wilmington. Amazon has found an outstanding, passionate workforce, strong state and local support and incredible customers across the state. We look forward to creating 1,000 new, full-time jobs with industry-leading pay and benefits, starting on day one, in a safe, innovative and quality work environment,” he added. “I know first-hand the opportunity and support network we provide employees for long-term, career success, and I’m excited to provide that same opportunity for thousands of current and future Amazonians,” he affirmed. Presently, Amazon has more than 110 fulfilment centres in North America and 185 centres globally, fulfilling the orders of millions of customers every day. The company has also pledged to invest more than $700m to provide upskilling training for 100,000 of its US employees for in-demand jobs.