Construction of The Yards, a US $41m mixed-use, luxury residential apartment development in the Kansas City Stockyards District, US is complete and will be opening to first residents this month. Located at 1660 Genessee Street in downtown Kansas City, The Yards is the biggest mixed-use residential project in the Stockyards District. The project consists of 232 luxury market rate apartment homes and 3,150 square feet of commercial retail space and over 9,500 square feet of amenities. Comprised of studios, one and two-bedroom apartment homes, The Yards development – designed by Kansas City architecture firm KEM Studio – is authentic to the district’s rich heritage by stitching together the iconic, modern Kemper Arena and the historic Livestock Exchange building. Residents will enjoy nearly over 9,500 square feet of amenities, including a saltwater pool and outdoor living and kitchen area, a community demonstration kitchen, an activity lounge and Fitness Center featuring workouts on demand, Bark Park and a Skydeck with panoramic views of downtown Kansas City. The Yards will be focused on custom service to their residence, featuring morning coffee service and other hotel-like amenities. Amenity spaces feature a curation of prominent local artists from Haw Contemporary. Also Read: Construction of The Ascent at Top of the Hill project in Cleveland Heights, Ohio begins The Yards is also offering residents amenities and experiences rarely – if ever – offered before. With a focus around the active lifestyle currently found in the Stockyards District, access to the Kansas River and levee trail, The Yards offers kayaks residents can use on the Kansas River. According to Kourtney Cowell, property manager of The Yards, it’s a completely unique resident experience that is different in the marketplace. “Additionally, we have a partnership with Amigoni Winery, and will be creating the first vineyard within an apartment community in Kansas City. “We will make our own wine, educate residents on how to grow the grapes and make wine,” said Ryan Cronk, Vice President of Development for Flaherty & Collins Properties, lead developer of the project. Apartments will include Euro-style kitchens with tile backsplashes, mudroom, mobile islands with quartz countertops, stainless steel appliances, smart thermostats, and LED lighting throughout. Prospective residents can schedule virtual tours and take advantage of a wide array of specials currently being offered, including two free months of rent, free garage parking, reduced pet fees, application fees and security deposits.