Construction works on the world’s first mobile stadium in Qatar, ahead of the 2022 FIFA World Cup, are still ongoing despite of the COVID-19 pandemic. So far, 923 containers have been delivered to the stadium site out of the 949 required for its construction. The fabrication of steel for the structure is 94% complete and the development of the steel structure is now 33 per cent complete. The world’s first mobile stadium can be dismantled, moved and reassembled. Once completed, the 40,000-seater dubbed the Ras Abu Aboud Stadium will be one of the most unique stadiums on the planet. It will not only be innovative, but it will also have a remarkable design. It will be constructed using shipping containers, seats that can be removed and other modular “building blocks”. After the world cup, its parts will be used in other sporting or non-sporting projects, setting a new standard in sustainability and introducing bold new ideas in tournament legacy planning. Set to be located on the shores of the Gulf, looking across to Doha’s beautiful West Bay skyline, Ras Abu Aboud Stadium will be an incredulous venue for matches up to the quarter-finals of the tournament. Following the World Cup’s conclusion, the stadium will be dismantled and will eventually make way for a waterfront development for local people to enjoy. Also Read: Construction of Al Thumama stadium in Qatar nears completion The strategy used for this project will mean that fewer building materials will be required than in traditional stadium building, helping to keep construction costs down. This is not the first sustainable project Qatar is coming up with in preparation for the world cup, the Al Thumama Stadium is a project that is also expected to have reusable utilities. Fenwick Iribarren Architects are the visionaries behind this venue’s splendid design. Excavations are already complete and the venue’s foundations are filled with reinforced concrete. Works on drainage networks and other utilities have begun. In the meantime, the shipping containers that will become the arena’s “building blocks” are being put together. As well as providing invaluable infrastructure to sporting projects far and wide, Ras Abu Aboud Stadium will also give global stadium developers and tournament planners a fine example to follow.