The Heavy Engineering arm of Larsen & Toubro ensured dispatch of critical Reactors, Coke drums, and Sub-assemblies of the Nuclear Fusion reactor for their global clients during the lockdown period in India from the beginning of last week of March. During this period, a final consignment of 4 (out of a total package of 16) ARDS Reactors for Refinery modernization project for clean, environment-friendly fuels to ADNOC, Abu Dhabi were delivered by the company. The final 4 Coke Drums part of a package of critical Hydrocracking Reactors for DUQM Refinery in Sultanate of Oman & 2 Ethylene Oxide Reactors for LPCL Petrochemical Complex in China were delivered on time. The sub-assemblies for International Thermonuclear Experimental Reactor (ITER) France were delivered on an urgent basis during Lockdown to ensure the uninterrupted assembly of Cryostat in the Reactor pit in southern France. It is noteworthy to mention that L&T Heavy Engineering has delivered key assemblies towards realizing full fusion power, by manufacturing the world’s largest high-vacuum pressure chamber Cryostat and In-Wall Shields for US$ 25bn multinational ITER project. All these significant orders for Process Plant and Nuclear Power mega projects were secured against the global competition with stiff delivery requirements. Commenting on the momentous achievement, Mr. Anil V Parab, Executive Vice President, and Head, L&T Heavy Engineering said “During the lockdown, our young engineers quickly adapted to new normal and ensured uninterrupted customer service following all safety precautions. We thank the government authorities for providing special permission to carry these challenging dispatches. The customer appreciation once again proves L&T Heavy Engineering’s unparalleled manufacturing excellence to promote honorable PM’s vision of “Make in India”. L&T Heavy Engineering has state-of-the-art, fully integrated, world-class manufacturing facilities at Hazira (Surat), Powai (Mumbai), and Vadodara. The Heavy engineering business of L&T has a proven track record of supplying technology-intensive equipment and systems to global customers in Refinery, Oil & Gas, Petrochemicals, Fertilizers, and Nuclear Power industries.