The Minister of Roads and Highways of Ghana, Mr. Kwasi Amoako, has cut the sod for the commencement of 40 kilometers of reconstruction works on Agyiringanor Township roads, Accra, in an effort to ease traffic congestion in that area. Also Read: Funds approved for Bolgatanga-Bawku-Polimakom road project in Ghana The over US$ 25M reconstruction works on Agyiringanor Township roads involves the construction of culverts and widening of critical link roads within East Legon in the Ayawaso West Municipality and ARS and Agyiringanor in the Adentan Municipality. It will also see the construction of an overpass at the Block factory to divert traffic from the motorway through Agyiringanor, the Institute of Local Government, the Institute of Professional Studies, the A and C Shopping Mall and the LEKMA Hospital road all of which have roads linking Tema Community 12 and Weija-Gbawe. The project will be executed by Oswal Investment Limited in two-phases within a period of 24 months. Mr. Humphrey A. Williams, the Managing Director of Oswal, assured that the project would be completed on schedule and urged the beneficiary communities to be cooperative. The Minister of Roads and Highways complained about the abuse of road reservations through the erection of private property which he said often delays priority government projects and directed both the Ayawaso West and Adentan Municipal assemblies to start demolishing such properties if the owners don’t bring them down. He promised that the ministry would come in if the assemblies face difficulties implementing policy decisions that discourage private developers from encroaching on green belts and road reservations. Mr. Kwasi Amoako also said that the national government has set 2020 as an aggressive road infrastructure development year and they would not allow any unplanned developments to stand on its way. He further warned the physical planning officers of the assemblies to stop issuing permits to people who call themselves “developers”.