Construction of Komatsu’s new state-of-the-art headquarters and manufacturing campus in Milwaukee’s Harbor District on east Greenfield Avenue, Wisconsin, US has began. This is after the company broke ground on the modern facility. The company recently finalized the acquisition of two parcels of land totaling nearly 57 acres for the project. Partnering with the State of Wisconsin and City of Milwaukee, Komatsu is investing approximately US $285m in its South Harbor Campus, which will include purpose-built, modern manufacturing facilities; advanced technology, robotics, engineering and R&D labs; a large office complex, training facilities, a data solutions center and an experience center. Also Read: Actis and GS Group to construct US $315m internet data centre in Seoul, South Korea According to Komatsu Mining Corp. President and CEO Jeff Dawes, building this state-of-the-art facility with a focus on prioritizing technology, supports the company’s commitment to developing and delivering innovative solutions for the global customers. “Our goal is to create a remarkable workplace for our employees that provides space to grow, will serve as a global center of excellence for Komatsu and demonstrates a sincere commitment to sustainability and our community,” he said. “We commend We Energies for their leadership in taking on the remediation of this former
superfund site,” said John Koetz, President, Surface Mining at Komatsu. “We are excited to see this harbor site transform from an abandoned brownfield to a vibrant, sustainable workplace that provides the community opportunity for family-sustaining jobs for the future,” he added. With the leadership of project partners, Hunzinger Construction Co, EUA, & GRAEF, full
construction is now underway. Contractors Hunzinger, A.W. Oakes & Son Inc. and Cornerstone One are all leveraging Komatsu’s new Smart Construction technologies to remotely optimize their processes and control construction planning, management, scheduling, and costs — all in near real time.