The renovation and expansion of Miami Beach Convention Center is complete. The 1,435,000-sf complex was designed to make it the most technologically-advanced center in the U.S. In addition, the expansion was aimed at marketing Miami Beach Convention Center on the international market. To raise the center to international standards involved a complex process of renovations and replacement of almost all mechanical and electrical operating systems in the building. Among the new features in the expanded structure is 127,000 sf of new meeting spaces and a new 60,000-sf ballroom. In addition, the new complex has 500,000 sf of exhibit hall space that has increased ballroom and meeting areas, improved IT connectivity capacities, and renovated back-of-house spaces. The structure also has more than six acres of parking space for the public. There are also several improvements on the infrastructure and landscaping including game lawn, a tropical garden, a water feature, pavilion, and veteran’s plaza. The renovation has given the 1950s-era complex a sustainable and modern look which led to the recent award of the LEED Silver certification. The renovation was led by global design companies Fentress Architects and Arquitectonia.  The convention, which is located at the heart of Miami Beach, is recognized globally for hosting annual events like eMERGE Americas and Art Basel Miami Beach. The renovation has improved the building’s level of energy efficiency and improved its ability to withstand hurricanes. It is currently ranked among the most technologically advanced convention centers in the United States. The renovation incorporated modern design including natural elements of beach, ocean, and underwater life. The design process started with a comprehensive study of the coral reefs, manta rays, and waves. The exterior and interior design blends well into the regional context with the eye-catching exterior having facades with more than 500 500 unique aluminum solar fins that mimic the movement of nearby ocean waves when observed from a distance.