Hines, a U.S real estate investment company, and its partner Cresset-Diversified QOZ Fund have started the construction of a new luxury for-rent residential community in Denver, US. Dubbed Residences at RiNo, the new mid-rise project will be built at the Entryway to Denver’s River North Arts District. The new Residences at RiNo will be built within North Wynkoop’s 1.25 million ft2 mixed-use scheme and will be the fourth project that the two companies have developed together. The project is an 11-storey structure made up of 397 units of luxury residences. The units come with private balconies that offer mountain and city views. The residential community will also involve the construction of one- and two-bedroom units ranging between 542 and 1,715ft², a studio, and a few affordable units and live/work units. The residential units will be fitted with various amenities including designer tile backsplashes, modern kitchens with quartz countertops, in-unit washer and dryers, wood-style flooring, matte black fixtures, and electric door locks. Other amenities will include a gym with on-demand virtual fitness classes, a garden area with outdoor gaming, hammocks, a yoga deck, and fire pits, and a resort-style heated swimming pool with a terrace. The community will also have a dog park and a pet spa, artist studio space with easels, tables, and other necessities, a bike shop and storage room, and nearly 14,500ft2 of ground-floor retail. There will be co-working spaces comprising of private meetings and a complimentary coffee bar on the fourth floor of the building. The projected is strategically located near River North District’s bars, restaurants, and entertainment joints, and popular destinations including Blue Moon Brewery, Improper City, Dover Central Market, and Globeville Landing Park. The Residences at RiNo project is expected to be completed in 2022 with initial occupancy expected in the third quarter of the same year. Pre-leasing is expected to start three months before the delivery.   