Miral, the company developing SeaWorld Abu Dhabi has announced that the US$3.2 billion projects have reached the 40% milestone after more than 50% of the concrete was poured; the heaviest 50-ton steel column has been installed, and acrylic for the exhibits have been successfully fitted at the marine life theme park project. Built on multiple levels with a total area of approximately 45.2 acres, the park’s design leverages SeaWorld’s years of experience in marine research, conservation, and animal welfare. SeaWorld Abu Dhabi which is scheduled for completion towards the end of 2022 will feature purpose-built habitats and ecosystems that will house different species together just as they are in the wild. Also Read: Lindt launches the world’s largest chocolate museum. Once complete, the marine life theme park will offer immersive experiences that engage visitors from the United Arab Emirates and around the world, broadening their knowledge and appreciation of marine life. In addition, the park will feature one of the world’s largest indoor aquariums, an immersive ride that takes guests on a journey from Pole to Pole, alongside other interactive exhibits. The park will be home to six distinct realms which tell a unified and immersive “One Ocean” story showing the interconnectivity between all life on Earth and our oceans – “We are connected to the Ocean, and the Ocean connects all of us.” In collaboration with SeaWorld Parks and Entertainment, this project aims to bring the next generation of marine life theme parks to Yas Island and will be home to the UAE’s first dedicated marine research, rescue, rehabilitation, and return center providing facilities to support regional and global conservation efforts. The research center will serve as an advanced knowledge harbor for researchers, scientists, and marine conservationists to better understand and protect the region’s marine life and ecosystem. The research will include live studies into indigenous Gulf species such as dugongs and sea turtles, while further contributing to the global marine science community.