The construction of the 80 kilometers Karloken-Fish Town Road whose construction begun back in 2012 in River Gee County is nearing completion and set to open to the public in May next year. Also Read: Construction of Gbarnga-Salayea road in Liberia continues despite Covid-19 pandemic Spearheaded by China Henan International Cooperation Group (CHICO), a Chinese state-owned construction and engineering company held by the provincial government of Henan, the project is an Asphalt Pavement which lies in a generally rolling mountainous terrain with a total length of 80.5km, and an average carriageway plus shoulder width of 11.3m. The road carriageway will remain as a 2-lane facility with each lane measuring 3.65 m in width. According to Jacob O. David, the human resource manager of CHICO, the entire project is 85% complete to this point. “The construction of culvert is 100 percent complete while the construction of bridges is at 90 percent and 53.1 kilometers out of 80.5 kilometers of the entire road pavement has been asphalted,” explained David. The road project is sponsored by the government of Liberia in collaboration with the African Development Bank (AfDB). Upon completion, the Karloken-Fish Town Road is expected to ease access to South East Counties of the West African country and, by extension, to the neighboring Mano River Union States. It is also expected to improve the socio-economic inclusion of the population in the south-east region, attract investments, and create employment opportunities as well as promote stronger government presence and boost cross-border trade. The Karloken-Fish Town Road project is a part of the 510 km Ganta – Harper Road project which the Government of Liberia (GoL) and the African Development Bank (AfDB) agrees that it is strategic and that it will ensure the sustainability of the investment within the southeastern region of Liberia considering that the section of road is a missing link along the Trans-African Highway corridors in West Africa.