Scout Clean Energy, a developer of renewable energy in the U.S has completed the construction of a 130MW Bitter Ridge Wind Farm in Indiana. The wind farm, located in Jay County, Indiana will be the company’s fourth utility-scale wind project. Scout is part of the Quinbrook Infrastructure Partners. The wind farm has been constructed with GE 2.82MW wind turbines and will raise the company’s total offshore wind generation capacity to 843MW. Scout, which is based in Colorado has a portfolio of wind power, solar power, and battery storage projects amounting to 4000MW. Development of Bitter Ridge Wind Farm started in 2016 and has managed to bring the project to completion after securing all permits and procurement activities.  In a statement, Scout CEO Michael Rucker said they were able to complete the project on schedule thanks to the dedication and coordination by the construction management team, contractors, suppliers, and financers. He noted that the project went on with minimal interruption despite the challenges brought by the COVID-19 pandemic. “Safety is always our number one priority, and we are proud to report that—due to diligent health and safety measures put in place for the protection of all workers—construction was completed without a single case of the COVID-19 virus being contracted on-site.” Bitter Ridge Wind Farm signed a 15-year power purchase agreement (PPA) with Constellation, a subsidiary of Exelon Company. In addition, the developer signed a fixed-price balance-of-plant construction agreement with Mortenson Construction that helped complete the work on schedule. Scout will undertake the management and post-construction operations of the Bitter Ridge Wind Farm. The company signed a tax incentive agreement with Jay County for the development of the project. Consequently, $1.56 will be channeled towards economic development payments to benefit several local community initiatives. The county projects to receive more than $18 million in tax revenue for the period the project will be in operation. 