Global design and BIM software provider Vectorworks, Inc. celebrates their nominations for the 2020 Construction Computing Awards. Vectorworks, Inc. and its products Vectorworks Architect and Vectorworks Landmark received nine nominations in BIM, architectural and innovation categories, among others. Additionally, the Vectorworks Nomad app is nominated in the Mobile Application category and Jonathan Reeves of Jonathan Reeves Architects received two nominations for his projects and work as a Vectorworks trainer. The Construction Computing Awards, also known as “The Hammers,” is now in its 15th year. The awards showcase and reward the technology, tools and solutions used in the effective design, construction, maintenance and modification of commercial buildings, residential and social housing and civil engineering projects of all sizes. The Hammers are the perfect opportunity for companies from every industry sector to seek recognition for their efforts over the past 12 months. “We’d like to thank the Construction Computing Awards for recognizing our efforts and commitment to the AEC industry,” said Vectorworks UK Director of Sales Adrian Slatter. “Despite this unprecedented year, providing innovations to our customers remained our top priority, which is why the launch of Vectorworks 2021 highlights our continued emphasis on improving product quality, performance and the user experience.” Vectorworks and its products are short-listed in the following categories: About Vectorworks, Inc. Vectorworks, Inc. is an award-winning design and BIM software provider serving the architecture, landscape architecture and entertainment industries in 85 countries. Creating intuitive software since 1985, we’ve become the preeminent software built to manage the entire design process. Globally more than 685,000 users are creating, connecting and influencing the next generation of design with Vectorworks on Mac and Windows. Headquartered in Columbia, Maryland, with offices in Newbury and London, England and Vancouver, Canada, Vectorworks is a part of the Nemetschek Group. 