The California Department of Transportation (Caltrans) has selected Granite as the Construction Manager/General Contractor (CM/GC) for the State Route 99 Rehabilitation Project. The road runs from El Dorado Street to Clinton Ave and its rehabilitation is expected to cost $257 million. In a move to ease road traffic, the project will include the reconstruction of 3.2 miles of roadway using concrete pavement. The rehabilitation will also include adding auxiliary lanes, improving interchange configurations, and increasing shoulder widths. Granite will seek to widen the State Route 99 from its previous project which it completed in 2018. Scoop of work The State Route 99 Rehabilitation project will involve among other things the widening or replacement of six bridges and replacement of drainage facilities including the installation of two pumping plants. In a statement, Granite Regional Vice President Carter Rohrbough said they are pleased and privileged to work with Caltrans to improve the level of transport infrastructure in Fresno. “We are honored to once again team up with Caltrans and improve transportation in Fresno,” said Rohrbough. He noted that their participation in the design, planning, and development of the project gives Granite a unique opportunity to add value to Caltrans as well as support communities. The Construction Management (CM) part of the project is expected to kick in by the end of this year while the General Contractor (GC) portion is expected to start in mid-2024. Granite is one of the largest companies offering diversified construction services and construction materials companies in the United States. The company mainly serves clients in the transportation, mineral exploration, and water infrastructure sectors. Recently the Department of Transport announced the re-opening of several ramps and a connector on State Route 99 as part of the Bakersfield 99 Rehab Project. Among those re-opened include the State Route 204 connector ramp to northbound State Route 99 and the westbound California Avenue on-ramp to northbound State Route 99.  