Designing Your Dream Pool Area is no small feat. From the pool itself to the surrounding outdoor features, there is a lot to take into account. Before you start the planning process with a contractor, you should know what you want. This way, you’ll be able to communicate your preferences. Here are five essential factors to consider when building your home’s dream pool. What do you want for your pool in terms of size and shape? To best guide your decision, you should understand what kind of use you plan to get out of the structure. You can think about information like: How many people you expect to use the structure regularly
What the structure’s primary use will be (recreation vs. exercise)
Your current budget The size and shape of your pool will affect your long-term satisfaction with it. Understand the different options available so you can choose the one that will best meet your needs. For example, a circular pool with a waterfall is best if you plan on having a lot of small social gatherings outdoors. If you want a structure to swim laps regularly, you should opt for a large rectangular shape. Before you get too far into the planning process, get an idea of your yard’s layout. Is it suitable for the construction of a pool? Do some areas contain rocky, sandy, or expansive soil? If so, you’ll have to identify these areas and plan for the construction elsewhere. Outline the acceptable spots so you and your contractor can settle on a permissible construction area. A lot of the time, pools are standalone structures. However, it is becoming increasingly common to include a hot tub adjacent to or connected to the main structure. Depending on the space available and your interest levels, you may want to get a hot tub installed. While you may be intrigued by the benefits of a hot tub, also be sure to consider the drawbacks. Owning a hot tub comes with increased electricity costs and requires additional maintenance. Concrete, vinyl, and fiberglass are the most common pool materials available. According to the contractor training experts at CTC, vinyl and fiberglass are the quickest to install. However, these materials often sacrifice longevity. Concrete pools can take anywhere from four to six weeks to build, but they last for years. Educate yourself on the differences between these materials so you can know what to expect going forward. Tiles are another part of the construction process. Do you want a minimalist design when it comes to the inclusion of tiles? Or, do you want to create an expansive, glamorous tile display? Some contractors will install a variety of outdoor features, while others only focus on pool construction. If you want outdoor features like lighting, a firepit, or pavers to accompany your pool, find a company that offers both pool construction and outdoor feature installation. Working with the same company can make scheduling the completion of projects more manageable. And, you’ll only have one company to work with when planning how to make your pool area’s design cohesive. Landscaping can also bring your outdoor area together. Inquire about installing softscape, like trees, shrubs, and flowers, to give your outdoor space some additional beauty.
The Takeaway
Before you get in touch with a contractor about building your dream pool area, consider what we’ve discussed today. Talk through the different elements with your spouse or family, so you’re all on the same page. This way, planning your dream pool area with a contractor will be that much easier!