The construction of “The Curve” at the New Administrative Capital (NAC) in Egypt is set to begin by the end of this year according to Ashraf Boulos, the project’s developer- Cornerstone Development – CEO. This is after the company obtained ministerial approval in addition to licenses required to develop the project which will be it’s first in the NAC. The Curve will be located in the NAC’s R8 district, and it will consist of a built-up area of 18%, which stands at less than the permitted percentage of 22.5%. The rest of the project’s land will be allocated for large green spaces and landscaping. The project also includes various services and amenities such as a commercial mall, an administrative building, as well as cultural, social, and sports services. Also Read: Eastown District New Cairo commercial project,Egypt to be delivered 2021 Ashraf Boulos said that the company plans to deliver the development by the end of 2023, with unit areas ranging from 80 square meters to 320 square meters. He revealed that 70% of the units range from 80 square meters to 200 square meters. All the units will be delivered with an 80% Flexi finish system. This means that clients will not need to worry about any of the tedious work given that they will receive the units with mosaic tiles for flooring, and ready to install HDF or porcelain. Additionally, the units will come with fully installed windows, handrails for terraces, and internal piping already installed for all electrical supplies and units. Clients will also be granted the opportunity to choose the final coating for walls, lighting, flooring, appliances, and furniture, according to their own unique taste. The CEO said that Cornerstone Development is committed to providing its units with competitive prices and fully flexible payment plans, in addition to making sure to provide luxury units in order to enhance customer confidence in the Cornerstone Development brand. “We are committed to hand over the units to customers in accordance with agreed specifications and delivery dates, as well as creating a homogeneous base of clients, he said.