The following are the top generator manufacturers in USA: Cummins is an international company that designs and manufacturers power generation equipment. Generally, the company offers gensets between 15KVA and 500KVA. The 250KVA to 500KVA range is used during construction for powering offices, cranes and other miscellaneous construction requirements. Generators ranging from 500KVA to 3000KVA are used for permanent installations as back-up power to local utilities companies in most buildings. The major business for Cummins Middle East comes from Dubai, UAE. But the company has seen growth in business activity in Qatar, Bahrain and Oman. Caterpillar provides gas-powerd generator sets from 9KW to 600KW and diesel-powered generator sets from 7KW to 16,200KW. It supplies these products to five GCC countries for which Al Bahar, a machinery and trading group in the Middle East, has the Caterpillar dealership. Caterpillar has different models to cater the needs of the industry and for varied project requirements. Cat clean diesel engines are designed for thousands of hours of life before overhaul. Features like high-strength blocks, large bearing areas, steel backed aluminum alloy bearings and hardened crankshafts are a few examples of how Cat engines are designed to deliver long life cycles. Briggs & Stratton Corporation, headquartered in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, is focused on providing power to get work done and make people’s lives better. Briggs & Stratton is the world’s largest producer of gasoline engines for outdoor power equipment, and is a leading designer, manufacturer and marketer of power generation, pressure washers, lawn and garden, turf care and job site products through its Briggs & Stratton®, Simplicity®, Snapper®,  Ferris®, Vanguard®, Allmand™, Billy Goat®, Murray®, Branco® and Victa® brands. Briggs & Stratton products are designed, manufactured, marketed and serviced in over 100 countries on six continents. Also Read: Top generator companies in the world Founded in 1959, Generac was the first to engineer affordable home standby generators, along with the first engine developed specifically for the rigors of generator use, and is now one of the biggest manufacturers of home backup generators. Generac manufactures the widest range of power products in the marketplace including portable, residential, commercial and industrial generators. They are also the leading designer and manufacturer of manual and fully automatic transfer switches and accessories for backup power applications up to 2 MW. The Generac Mobile line of powerful, high-quality light towers, trailer-mounted mobile generators and combination units are designed and built for a variety of industries and the most demanding environments. Generac also pioneered the residential power washer category, putting the power to clean into the hands of homeowners. Today, Generac features a full line of innovative, industry-leading power washers suitable for virtually any application, including the toughest commercial and industrial environments. Aksa Power Generation manufactures gasoline, diesel, natural gas and marine generating sets range between 1 kVA to 3000 kVA as well as lighting towers and generator hardware in the manufacturing facilities in Istanbul (Turkey 20.000 m² of indoor space ), Changzou (China 100.000 m² of indoor space) and Louisiana (U.S.A., 10.000 m² of indoor space); and has become a leader and pioneer within the sector. The company exports more than 50% of its products and is among the top five global firms of the sector with 13 offices located in Asia, Europe, Africa and America. Being one of the first manufacturers of natural gas generator sets of the world, Aksa Generators withholds an undisputed supremacy with respect to synchronized sets. Aksa Generators increases its investments continuously in technology to remain the pioneer of change by the manufacturing of more soundproof, environment-friendly generators with lower fuel consumption.