With the expanding industrial landscape, industrialists need professional equipment and different types of pumps to streamline processes. Most industries use liquids – water, oil, and chemicals excessively but transferring it from container to another drum is super tricky. You have to protect your hands, maintain a firm grip, and remain careful throughout. Although funnels can make this job manageable, they are too slow. Therefore, consider installing pumps to control and manipulate the liquids adequately. Pumps can transfer liquids from one source to another without any human intervention. For instance, if you want to extract water from a well, use a water pump, and quickly fill the tank storage. You can find various types of pumps in the market, serving a different purpose. Before making a purchase, assess your needs and requirements – whether you want to move the fluids or increase the pressure. Similarly, identify the fluid you desire to pump, the distance, and the quantity you need. At first, it might seem a little complex, but it will help you recognize the kind of pump you want. Do you have any idea about pumps? If not, have a look below. Here are seven different types of pumps and their application in various industries.  If you want a single pump that can perform multiple functions, opt for a centrifugal pump. It converts rotational energy into moving fluid, inducing the flow from the ground to a high level. These pumps are useful in almost every industry – diary, winemaking, petroleum, food-processing, chemical. In industries that require suction, these pumps can move general water supply with pressure. Likewise, you can use it for wastewater management, flood protection, or domestic water supply in buildings. Do you like the best part? The centrifugal pumps installation is pretty straightforward, meaning you can install it by yourself.  Whether you are operating in the paper, chemical, food, or pharmaceutical industry – lobe pumps are useful in every application. They offer incredible sanitary qualities with high efficiency and corrosion resistance. It consists of rotating lobes that create massive pumping chambers, allowing the pump to handle small solids, pastes, and other liquids with ease. Since the lobes keep turning, the flow remains constant even if there are any pressure changes. The features, design, and top-notch hygiene qualities make it the perfect fit for the food and pharmaceutical industries.  Usually, industries have to dispense chemicals safely. If you are trying to be socially responsible, get your hands-on drum pumps. You have to use them with oils, acids, lubricants, and sanitizers to dispense liquids from bulk containers. These are quite popular in textile industries for distributing ammonia and other materials. Drum pumps ensure there is no compromise on the purity of their fluids while helping industries remain civil. Moreover, these pumps get manufactured from high-quality polypropylene that promises superior performance and excellent chemical resistance.  Industries solely relying on heavy equipment and machinery need piston pumps. These are reciprocating pumps that pressurize fluid to move it in different directions. It is driven by an electric motor and a connecting rod, more like hydraulic pumps. You can use it to power heavy machinery or operate smaller machines with it. Similarly, feel free to change this pump’s sizes and use them in oil production or other industrial applications. Remember, these pumps have multiple pistons and check valves, ensuring the fluid flows in the correct direction.  Diaphragm pumps can handle varying pressure changes and different flow rates of liquid. The inner surface comprises Teflon that offers high flexibility, precise mechanics, and self-priming capability. Most important, it has corrosion resistance, making these pumps ideal for industrial usage. You can either use it as a metering pump in water treatment or as a vacuum pump to process operations in the chemical industry. These pumps run parallel with water growth, which means they can increase industrial activities in the area. Other industrial applications include dewatering, spraying, and filtering the water.  Almost every homeowner owns a submersible water pump. It is submerged inside the water tank to create pressure in the water. It pushes the fluids from the surface to the top, supplying water to the main tank and pipes. Industrialists use these pumps to drain water from basements and holes during mining or construction. Similarly, the oil and gas industry can conduct deep exploration activities with the help of these pumps. Another advantage of these pumps is that it prevents cavities in the water tank, ensuring optimal hygiene.  Gear pumps are widely popular in the petrochemical industry. It employs a system of meshing gears to move fluids around. It consists of two gear wheels to create a partial vacuum and suction on liquids’ excellent rotation. Although these pumps are self-priming, they can dry-lift if any of the gears is wet. Industrialists use it for crude oil, diesel oil, bitumen, and for transporting chemicals and acids. The food industry also uses them for molasses, vegetables, pet food, and chocolate production.  Final Thoughts: The plumbing industry is overflowing with new inventions and multi-purpose pumps. Enterprises are trying to limit manual labor and move towards automation – an ideal of saving costs. Fortunately, water pumps come in handy. They can manage all kinds of liquid substances while closing doors for leakages. If oil and chemical spills are mainstream in your industrial sector, consider installing a suitable pump to streamline processes.