The construction of an 87,000-square-foot Science & Innovation Building at California State University has been completed. The $71.5 million project was undertaken by C.W. Driver Companies and features state-of-the-art faculty offices, laboratories, and classes. The facility will be used to offer courses that prepare students for careers in science, technology engineering, and math (STEM). In a statement, Tom Jones, project executive at C.W. Driver Companies said it is an honor to partner with the university to bring their vision to life. “It was a pleasure partnering with CSU Dominguez Hills to bring their vision of a modern science and innovation facility to life,” he said. Tom went on to say that one of their main objectives during construction was to minimize the impact on students and staff and allow normal operation to proceed. He said to achieve this; they applied various measures like using acoustic sound blankets. These measures were taken to ensure the project does not fall behind schedule and also not interrupt learning activities at the campus. The building is designed with alternating gray and blue colored panes that are designed to convey a decoded DNA strand. The interior is lined with metal panels and bamboo wood. In addition, the building is fitted with sophisticated plumbing and mechanical systems to accommodate and support the facility’s science and technology functions. These systems include more than 60 fume hoods and extensive laboratory waste disposal systems and special supply and return air ducting. In addition, all classrooms are lined with electrical systems consisting of data points, low and medium voltage utilities, and substantial audio-visual features. The construction of the Science & Innovation Building at CSU Dominguez Hills received a $4 million financial in form of a grant from the Toyota USA Foundation. A section in the building has been used to set up the Toyota Center for Innovation in STEM Education in recognition of the generous contribution by Toyota.  