The ongoing Eastown District New Cairo commercial project in Egypt is on track to be delivered starting from next year as more than 50% of construction work has been completed. This is according to Magued Sherif, the managing director of the projects developing company which is known as SODIC Development -one of Egypt’s largest real estate developers, catering to the North African country’s ever-growing need for high quality residential, commercial and retail properties. Located on road 90, the main street and the central axis of New Cairo, the Eastown District New Cairo (EDNC) commercial project is the commercial component of Eastown, SODIC’s mixed-use development located on the same road immediately adjacent to the American University in Cairo (AUC). Also Read: Construction activities to resume in Egypt after 4 months of suspension The EDNC brings 90,000 SQM of prime commercial and retail space. Its retail space is made up of a total of approximately 22,250 SQM built up area featuring a mix of a ground floor and single-storey buildings designed with a highly creative and playful approach. This area will be home to some of Cairo’s finest restaurants, entertainment concepts and fashion brands, sited along a vibrant walkway with access to a beautiful 13,631 SQM park which will feature an amphitheater, water features, and workout hub. The developments also consist of circa 63,000 SQM of built-up area, which includes office complex composed of cantilevered 4-storey buildings, developed sustainably with buildings’ facades featuring high-performance curtain wall double- glazing with high-quality insulated precast concrete panels to encourage a healthy productive environment with a reduced carbon footprint. The façade design is elevated on a glass base intersected by abstract cut-outs, creating vantage points for each building while ensuring a sense of unity within the entire complex. The unique buildings overlook a central piazza connecting to the main spine of the retail hub. This project is in line with the company’s strategy to largely retain prime non-residential assets to contribute to recurring income in the future.