The work is being carried out by the company UMB Spedition while the client is the National Company for the Administration of Road Infrastructure (CNAIR). UMB is a family enterprise led by Mr. Umbrerescu, and is a leading construction company. This well consolidated company has an extraordinary capacity as far as human resources and production equipment is concerned. This allows the company to embark in large construction projects amongst which are 30km of the Transilvanian highway between Nadaselu and Zimbor, the last 2 segments of the highway between Craiova and Pitesti and the upgrading of the road in the county of Vrancea. The final result of the agreement was an innovative proposal by Moldtech, where, for the first time in the history of precast in Romania, a mobile plant was constructed with the exceptional capacity of a daily pour of 1.100 m3. Once the production phase in Bacau area was completed, all the equipment was moved to Craiova for the second phase which involved 400 pre-stressed bridge girders and the additional elements like deck slabs, parapets, diaphragm, etc. Moldtech supplied the following equipment: – Four hydraulic bridge girder moulds, each with a length of 125 meters and adjustable height from 1 meter up to 2.4 meters and a total pre-stress force up to 1500 MT. – Two fixed self-stressing tables of 2.4 x 30 meters and with pre-tress force up to 200 Tn for the production of half slabs – Two tilting tables of size 2.5 x 48 meters for the production of sound walls. The tables include a collapsible top shutter for easy release of the panels. – Eight mechanical moulds for the production of parapets. The length of each mould is 12.5 meters and the parapet design complies with the Romanian road safety regulation. – Eight mechanic moulds to produce diaphragms, with an adjustable height from 600mm up to 2200mm. – The supply furthermore included one of the well-known MT 20 dry cast box culvert machines which Moldtech has been selling since more than 10 years. This dry cast machine makes it possible to produce 10 box culverts in one shift thanks to its vibro-pressing system. -For a swift process of filling the moulds Moldtech supplied several Giraffe concrete transport and distribution vehicles with a capacity of 4m3 and which can pour directly into the different moulds including the 2.2 meters high girder mould. The supply also included other accessories such as tension jacks, strand pushing machine, hydraulic tension and de-tensioning units etc.. With this mega project Moldtech strengthens its leadership as a manufacturer of equipment for precast bridge elements especially for those projects which require a mobile solution with production in different geographic locations. 