Selling property is not always easy. Suddenly we went into lockdown because of Covid 19 and the property sales market went into a nosedive. We came out of lockdown with glorious weather and all of a sudden a suppressed demand for different properties and gardens led to a spike in viewings and sales. But not every seller is fortunate enough to be blessed with outside space similar to Buckingham Palace. Also viewings of properties going forward into the winter months are not going to be sunny days where your property may appear to resemble a Malibu villa. Indeed the sales market invariably slows down in the winter months anyway. So it is widely believed that this property surge is not going to last. Coupled with this is the prospect t that the increasing Covid-19 numbers may lead to a partial or second lockdown. So the question is, what can sellers do to gain a competitive edge to help them sell their properties quickly.  Having the house nice and clean for viewings has always been important, but never more so than now. Suddenly cleanliness is near to or top of the agenda as to whether buyers want to spend time inside properties, or to swiftly exit. Indeed I once had the experience of viewing a house and had the misfortune of treading in a big pile of dog’s poo on the kitchen floor. Needless to say, I skedaddled out as fast as I could. I would recommended getting down and dirty to ensure every room is sparkling clean, especially the kitchen and bathrooms. If you do not have the inclination or the time, but do have the funds, think about employing a cleaner to come in.  During these Covid times, we are even more conscious of the flow of fresh air, so do ensure that the windows are open before and during viewings, without of course leaving the house feeling like an arctic snow palace. Certainly any bad odours are going to put off buyers and often we can become immune to them in our own homes. So a pleasant fresh aroma is always going to help to sell property quickly. I have come across the old tricks of people brewing coffee or baking bread to create enticing smells, but it always makes me feel like the seller is trying too hard so must be struggling to sell. Fresh flowers always come across well and also give a good look to certain rooms.  Virtual viewings when selling property have become all the rage during Covid-19 and I suspect will continue to do so. Just in case we do go into another lockdown, it is worth engaging an estate agent who can arrange these, so at least people could still view your property online if stuck at home.  This is especially important if your property is not large, as you want to have your place looking as spacious as possible. Buyers need to be able to imagine what the property will look like with all their stuff.  Also more space, means more space between people and this may appeal to buyer’s current increased desire to socially distance. If you are not intending on taking some bulky furniture with you, consider getting rid of it, selling it, giving it away or taking it to the dump. If you have a lot of stuff with nowhere for it to go, you may even want to think about renting a storage unit and storing anything you may not need for the time being. Viewers often look in cupboards, so try to resist the temptation of squeezing a mountain of stuff into one, ready to cascade down onto any unsuspecting poor soul as they open the door. Sometimes crammed cupboards can be counterproductive, as can leave buyers thinking storage is limited. One final tip, is do not overdo the decluttering, as if you remove all personality from the house, properties can then appear sterile and unappealing.  Previously gardens were something the estate agent briefly pointed out and to which viewers may have given a cursory look, sometimes even from the inside of the property. Those days have gone and some say gardens are more important than kitchens or bathrooms nowadays. Therefore make sure your garden is looking its best. And as with a cleaner, if you cannot be bothered to do it yourself maybe think about engaging a gardener to come at least once to do a big spruce up before the first round of viewings (or preferably before the agents takes the marketing photos).  Anything that is surplus to requirements in the garden, like that child’s large space hopper, store it away or get rid.  The difference a lick of paint can make to selling property cannot be overstated. I have advertised properties in the past, had endless viewings and got nowhere.  I have then quickly painted the rooms most in need (and certainly not to a standard Michelangelo would be proud of) and the places have then gone on the next viewings.  Not only do decorated rooms look so much better, they smell better and just feel better. Fresh looking properties trump stale looking places even more so during these Covid times.  Overall during Covid-19, people are spending more time in their properties, so buyers will no doubt seek higher standards than before Covid-19. If you want to get a guaranteed sale really super fast, you can also consider using the services of a quick buying company such as Quick Property Buyer. We will pay cash for any property. So do get in touch with us for a no obligation cash offer. 