Green Brick Partners has launched plans for the Dove Hollow development project that consists of 600-single family homes in Texas. The company recently completed the purchase of 214 acres in Waxahachie on which the project will be developed. In a development dubbed Dove Hollow development, the company, through its Trophy Signature Homes brand will offer more than 600 homes.  The project is located a few miles away from downtown Waxahachie and its constructio0n is expected to begin in early 2021. The Dove Hollow development is been motivated by strong demand for residential property as has been witnessed with the neighboring Buffalo Ridge community whose sale started in September. In a statement, Green Brick Partners Jed Dolson said “Easy access to the Metroplex, a family-friendly atmosphere, and an amenity-rich downtown has homebuyers flocking to Waxahachie.” Added that the project was designed to meet the rising demand for larger homes with enough space. According to the company, the Dove Hollow development project will be developed in three phases and will include a community park, large green spaces, and an amenity center. As with other communities developed by Trophy Signature Homes, each home will come with Smart Home automation packages, engineered wood floors, and modern, horizontal fireplaces. In a comment on the project, Trophy Signature Homes president Stewart Parker said the company’s new designs, a remote working model, and a simplified home buying process has paid off for the company. He added that Trophy Signature Homes has adopted standard features in all its homes. Green Brick Partners’ Buffalo Ridge comprised of two to five bathrooms and three to five bedrooms and sold within the range of the $240,000s. The company is also working on other projects in McKinney and Fort Worth. Green Brick has partnered with Taylor Morrison for the Madero development north of Sendera Ranch in Fort Worth. The two companies recently acquired around 900 acres on which the project will be constructed.