Development of Merritt Business Park has commenced with the construction of the first of the two flex/light industrial buildings. The two buildings will form part of Merritt Business Park at Quantico Corporate Center. The development is being undertaken by Merritt Properties, a commercial real estate company with 17 million square feet in North Carolina, Virginia, and Maryland. The new park is located in Stafford County, strategically adjacent to the Marine Corps Base Quantico on I-95 between Washington, D.C., and Richmond. The completed Merritt Business Park will comprise 171,000 square feet of single-story. The first building of the project will be 90,000-square-foot and is expected to be complete by the second quarter of 2021. Merritt settled on Stafford County as the ideal place for the Merritt Business Park following other successful projects in Prince William and Loudoun counties. The project will be designed with Class A light industrial products and an extensive fiber-optic network. In a statement, Meg Bohmke, Chairman of the Stafford County Board of Supervisors said they are pleased that Merritt chose Stafford County as the location for its project. In addition, Griffis-Widewater District Supervisor, Tinesha Allen said the flex commercial buildings will offer small companies with enough space as well as access to the advanced technology and amenities available in Quantico Corporate Center. Merritt Business Park is located with Quantico Corporate Center (QCC), and will be the first Class A business park. The campus also hosts several technology and defense companies, government offices, top academic programs for both undergraduate and graduate levels. The park also has two hotels, restaurants including the popular Globe & Laurel restaurant plus various other amenities. All these make Quantico Corporate Center an attractive business location. Merritt is expected to construct Class A flex style buildings that will complement the existing Class A office building in the park.