Construction of the National Air and Space Intelligence Center (NASIC)’s Intelligence Production Center is set to be completed in January 2025. The $182 million facility is set to be the largest single-site construction project in the history of Wright-Patterson Air Force Base. According to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, the 256,000 sf production center will accommodate more than 900 people working for NASIC. Steve Farkus, project manager for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Louisville District said the new building will be combined with several renovations on other structures on site. Creating a safe working environment for workers In a statement, Farkus said their main focus will shift towards ensuring the safety of workers as well as minimize interruptions during construction. The project is yet another commitment by Wright-Patt to support the national defense community. “This much-needed expansion will help serve not only our community but also our national security, as the work done at NASIC is critical to our intelligence operations,” U.S. Rep. Mike Turner (R-Dayton) said. NASIC’s growing role in the country’s air defense According to Elaine Bryant, executive vice president of aerospace and defense for the Dayton Development Coalition, NASIC’s in the country’s air defense has been growing which highlights the importance of the construction of the Intelligence Production Center. He added that they will continue to work with the Space Force, the Air Force, and the Congressional delegation to support the expansion of NASIC as well as ensure they have the skills and capacity to complete the project. Details in a Notice to Proceed issued on September 4 shows the construction of the project is expected to last for 1,095 days from the date of issue of the Notice. Farkus however says this project is complicated as it will involve testing of advanced defense and military systems. This means additional time may be granted to connect the new project to existing buildings.