Extell Development Company will begin construction of its Class A office building in New York’s East Harlem. Dubbed Harlem Headquarters, the new structure will have nine floors and its construction is expected to commence early next year with its completion scheduled for late 2022. The new office block will have offer 441,600 sf of Class A office space and will also include a 7,500-sf roofdeck terrace and a 40,851-sf community center. Designed by Gensler, Harlem Headquarters will have 56,000-sf floor plates that can be portioned into three sections. According to Rose Disarno, Associate and Design Lead at Gensler’s New York office, the building will have layouts that can be customized for tenants. In addition, each space will be allocated its own terrace outside. Disarno further indicated that Harlem Headquarters has a smart design, which includes MIRV-14 filters installed throughout the building and a solar array installed on the roof. Cushman & Wakefield has been appointed to serve as the building’s marketing agent with its leasing expected to start late this year. Disarno noted that the building’s roofdeck will be a very important amenity even as more workers return to office time office life following the COVID-19 pandemic. Harlem Headquarters is in a strategic location with several subway stops and is also expected to have access to the Metro Line rail line that serves several suburbs. The full cost of the building’s construction has not been disclosed but its construction team will include JM Zoning (zoning), Longman Lindsey (acoustics), Matthews Nielsen Landscape Architects (landscaping), Bright Power (renewable energy), IBA Consultants (façade), Philip Habib + Associates (CE), AKF (MEP and lighting), GMS (SE), and Monadnock (GC). According to Gary Barnett, the chairman and founder of Extell, the company has been exploring several options of having property in East Harlem. The land where Harlem Headquarters will stand was acquired in 2014 at a cost of $39 million.