Gilbane Development Company has announced the completion of more than 3,000 beds of new student housing ahead of the start of the fall semester. The beds are spread out in four new student housing projects that the company completed at Kennesaw State University, Oregon State University, Arizona State University, and Towson University. The company’s new and existing student housing portfolio now leases to 97% occupancy. In addition to completing the four projects, Gilbane Development also won a contract to develop more than 2,500 on-campus beds. The company also secured over $300 million in financing for additional student housing projects. The company completed and delivered Altus, a 720-beds student housing project at Towson University campus. This project is part of the $350 million Towson Row mixed-use development that will offer more than 1 million square feet of hotel, retail, residential, and office space. The second project is Apollo, a 943-bed purpose-built student housing developed at Arizona State University’s Tempe, Arizona campus. The development is part of the Array on Apache project that will offer 12,000 sf of retail and parking space. The company also developed Sierra, a 228-unit building next to the southeast corner of Oregon State University’s campus in Corvallis, Oregon. The student housing project features amenities like 3 courtyards, a garage, structured parking, group study rooms, a game room, a fitness center, a clubhouse, and a heated pool. The housing project is located just a few meters from Downtown Corvallis. The fourth project was Bixby and was developed at Kennesaw State University (KSU) in Kennesaw and is located just 30 minutes north of Atlanta. The 656-bed project also features a structured parking space and part of the 3,000 sf of retail development. In addition, it has a rooftop skydeck overlooking the KSU football stadium and a heated saltwater swimming pool. Russell Broderick, senior vice president of Gilbane Development Company appreciated the team that worked on the project from design to construction to property management and operations for working hard to deliver the project.