Tlou Energy Limited, an exploration-stage company engaged in the exploration and evaluation of assets in Botswana and the southern Africa region at large to identify and develop Coalbed Methane (CBM) resources has announced that it is currently seeking funding for the development of the Lesedi power project. In a statement, the company noted that it has engaged Botswana Development Corporation (BDC) and the discussions are still ongoing and they hope to successfully conclude the funding proposal. It has also recently received an indicative term sheet for transmission line and transformer funding from a new potential financier. It will assess this offer alongside other potential financiers to evaluate the best possible option and funding partner going forward. Also Read: Botswana: Solar and thermal power plants planned for construction by 2026 Tlou Energy said that the financing that will be obtained will be used to carry out the project in two phases. The first of which will produce approximately 2 MW of electricity will require an investment of, while the second phase with a projected capacity of 10 MW will cost US$ 20M. Phase one of the project which is estimated to cost about US$ 10M involves transmission line construction, transformer installation, grid connection, procurement and installation of electricity generators, and potentially the drilling of additional gas wells. The said transmission line will run from the Lesedi project to the town of Serowe, a distance of about 100 Km, where it will connect to the existing power grid. This phase will produce approximately 2 MW of electricity. The 2nd Phase mainly aims to increase the initial electricity production to 10MW and it will involve the drilling of more gas wells as well as the purchase of additional generators. The cost of this phase is approximately US$ 20M. Upon successful completion of phase one and two, the company plans to expand the project beyond 10MW. This expansion is expected to be completed using project revenues and debt.