A Solar & Diesel Genset hybrid power plant is set to be constructed in Agadez, Niger, in the West African region. This is after the Niger Electricity Company (NIGELEC) awarded Sterling and Wilson Pvt Ltd (SWPL), India’s leading engineering, procurement, and construction (EPC) company, in consortium partnership with French EPC Company Vergnet and SNS Niger a contract for the implementation of the project. The project consists of the installation of 18.9MWp solar + 11.55MWh/3.0 MVA battery energy storage system (BESS) + 6.54 MVA (2.18 x 3 MVA) diesel generator and construction of a 20 kV substation, and evacuation line up to the Nigelec Substation in Agadez. The consortium will also rehabilitate the electrical network of the city of Agadez, and electrify the neighboring hamlet of Tibinitene as part of the contract. Also Read: Construction to begin at Gorou Banda Solar plant, Niger. Furthermore, it will provide project management assistance and institutional support to train engineers and technicians of Nigelec in photovoltaic technologies to enable them to operate large-scale solar power plants in the short term and to ensure smooth functioning of the plant even after the two years the consortium is supposed to offer the operation and maintenance (O&M) services for the project. Speaking on the tender, Mr. Deepak Thakur, the Chief Executive Officer at Sterling and Wilson Hybrid & Energy Storage division, said that they are extremely delighted to have secured this prestigious opportunity in Africa. “Hybrid energy solutions is a huge opportunity as many power generation and distribution companies in Africa are moving into renewables. As one of the leading turnkey EPC solution providers globally, with project management, engineering, and delivery expertise of over 11 GW of diversified energy offerings across geographies, along with our consortium partners, we are committed to delivering this project well on-time while fully complying with the stringent quality and safety standards,” confirmed Mr. Deepak Thakur. This project will be Niger’s first ground-mounted Solar PV, Diesel, and Battery Storage based power plant.