Construction work on Ellicott Place mixed-use redevelopment project under the Downtown Revitalization Initiative (DRI) is expected to start in Batavia. This is according to a recent announcement by New York Governor Andrew Cuomo. DRI was launched by Governor Andrew Cuomo in 2016 and was aimed at revitalizing downtown and its environments. Authorities are working on upgrading downtown to act as a center of activities and spur investment in all the 10 regions of the state. The $2.5m Ellicott Place project is located at 45-47 Ellicott Street in Batavia’s downtown and will be managed by Empire State Development. The project has been allocated $1.15 million through Batavia’s $10m DRI. The scoop of the project Construction work on the Ellicott Place mixed-use redevelopment project will involve among other things, the refurbishment of a 48,899ft² building through the conversion of the vacant first-floor area covering 10,000ft² into commercial space. The building was originally built to accommodate a department store and is currently used by a retail store that has occupied almost half of the first level. The rest of the structure is currently vacant. The redevelopment will involve the installation of a new elevator, interior parking on the first floor, ten 1-2-bedroom units on the second floor, and façade upgrades. The completed project is expected to create 30 more jobs in the new commercial space created. V.J. Gautieri Constructors were awarded the contract to construct the project. The construction is expected to bring more life into the building and add additional residents and activity to downtown Batavia. In a statement, Governor Cuomo said, for many residents of New York, their recovery from the pandemic is largely dependent on the availability of jobs and quality homes. He added, “This new mixed redevelopment project continues our commitment to investing in communities across the state, improving quality of life for residents and building back a better, stronger New York for all.”