New York Governor Andrew M. Cuomo recently announced plans to expand parts of the westbound Staten Island Expressway (I-278) in Staten Island to improve safety and reduce congestion. The project whose construction has since commenced will be completed in spring 2021 and will connect the South Avenue exit ramp and the ramps and the northbound Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Expressway. The expansion is expected to create a continuous auxiliary lane and allow motorists to easily merge on and off the expressway. In a statement, Marie Therese Dominguez, commissioner Department of Transportation said Governor Cuomo’s leadership has continued to prioritize investment in road infrastructure in a bid to reduce congestion and create an efficient transport network. He added that the expansion will reduce congestion along the Staten Island Expressway as well as connecting local roadways to the benefit of thousands of motorists use the road daily. The additional auxiliary lane will allow motorists to access South Avenue (Exit 6) or Richmond Avenue (Exit 7) without merging on to the Staten Island Expressway. In addition, the auxiliary lane will allow motorists to easily move from Victory Boulevard to South Avenue and Richmond Avenue through Dr. Martin Luther King Expressway. The $3.3 million road improvement project will also involve the mounting of two new overhead sigh structures, installation of LED lighting, and new guiderails. In addition, new pavement markings will be milled on the westbound Staten Island Expressway. Congressman Max Rose while commenting on the project said it will go a long way in reducing traffic congestion in the city. She added that the project has been modeled on a similar one that was constructed on West Shore which helped to increase safety and reduce congestion on the road. Senator Andrew Lanza on his side commended the NYS DOT for continually seeking ways to improve traffic flow in the city. He added that the new auxiliary lane will help enhance traffic on the road.