An exciting new development centred on a revolutionary new multi-purpose digital arena could be on the cards for Dundee waterfront in UK; a prominent site next to Slessor Gardens. An announcement by Northern Lights Arena Europe Limited (NLAE) of an 18-month exclusivity agreement with Dundee City Council allows the company to progress initial design concepts, strategic advice and expertise. The Arena could provide educational, economic, entertainment and employment opportunities for Dundee. It will announce to Scotland and the other nations of the UK, our intention to drive the City of Dundee as a destination for visitors to enjoy not just for our unique position, hospitality and enviable locations but also our next generation approach for such venues. Also Read: Uganda: Feasibility study for Buhinga and Akii-Bua stadium projects to start The future arena would host circa 4,000 seats, an esports academy for further and higher education and, alongside conventional leisure, indoor sporting events, retail and live/workspace. It is to be located near the prestigious V&A Dundee adjacent to the Tay Road Bridge and will be a significant new addition to the landscape of the city. NLAE is already working with Abertay University, Europe’s top ranked institution for video games education, to maximise the educational benefits of this project. As part of the project, Abertay intends to develop a new range of degree courses related to the global esports job market, with students gaining access to bespoke facilities within the arena complex. Abertay’s local college partner, Dundee & Angus College, would also be part of the project, ensuring opportunities for involvement are provided for young people across the region. Cutting edge facilities and technical infrastructure for the arena and academic campus will be designed with Nottingham Trent University’s Creative Technology faculty, Confetti. Technology partners including Amazon Web Services, and low-carbon energy provider Vital Energi will guarantee that Dundee has a state-of-the-art facility for the 21st century.