Snøhetta has won a competition to design the Theodore Roosevelt Presidential Library. The company’s presentation was selected by the judges as the winning design in a competition to design the library. The winning was inspired by the President’s commitment to environmental stewardship, his personal reflections on the landscape, and the periods of quiet introspection and civic engagement that marked his life. The Theodore Roosevelt Presidential Library design reflects the journey through a preserved landscape of diverse habitats and also has several small pavilions that offer spaces for reflection. The library is set on a landscape that has been conserved for conservation research.  The location is suitable for leisure, educational walks, and recreation. It will have paths connecting Maah Daah Trail and several small pavilions. The pavilions come in different sizes ranging from small nooks to expansive vistas. The Theodore Roosevelt Presidential Library will have an accessible rooftop that offers a scenic view of the National Park. This view is meant to offer moments of reflection and connect visitors to Roosevelt’s legacy. At night, the rooftop will offer an ideal location for stargazing while a covered porch that faces the neighboring valleys will be used for meetings and gatherings throughout the year. The library will also have large windows that highlight blur the line between interior and exterior and highlight views of historically significant landscapes. Locally sourced and renewable materials will be to construct the library. It will be fitted with sophisticated energy systems that will set new thresholds for sustainable design in the region. In addition, the library’s design also mitigates the impact of wind and other elements of weather. This makes the library accessible to users in all seasons. Other companies that participated in the competition include Henning Larsen and Studio Gang. The competition lasted for five months. Teddy Roosevelt Presidential library was designed more than a century after his death in 1919.