The following are the top construction companies in the state of California, USA Swinerton provides commercial construction and construction management services throughout the United States and is a 100% employee-owned company. Recognized nationally since 1888, Swinerton is the preferred builder and trusted partner in every market. The company has over 3,500 employees from coast to coast, and along the way they have helped build communities from the peaks of the Rocky Mountains to the Hawaiian Islands, from the Gulf of Alaska to the jungles of Colombia. The company still operates under California contractor’s license number 92—the one it obtained in 1927 when the state first began issuing licenses. Many Swinerton-built structures now claim a spot on the National Register of Historic Places and other architectural preservation lists. Webcor is a premier provider of commercial construction services, known for its innovative and efficient approach, wide range of experience, cost-effective design-build methodology, skill in concrete construction and expertise in building landmark projects. Webcor’s mission is to build structures of superior quality with integrity, continuously improve its processes by employing the best talent in the industry, and add social and economic value to its communities. Founded in 1971 and repeatedly honored as one of the Greenest Builders in California, Healthiest Employers, Top Corporate Philanthropists, Best Places to Work and Largest California Construction Firms, Webcor has offices throughout the state in San Francisco, Alameda, San Jose and Los Angeles. Also Read: 10 top construction companies in USA DPR Construction is a unique technical builder with a passion for results. Ranked in the top 50 general contractors in the country since 1997, they are a national commercial contractor and construction manager that has grown with the customers by delivering measurably more value. Whether a multi-million-dollar technical facility or a conference room renovation, they execute every project with relentless accountability. DPR is a progressive company that thinks outside of the box. Modern enough with BIM for large projects, while still having a small company feel with employees who are personable. Available resources both in-house and with top-tier subcontractors. DPR brings a high level of integrity, collaboration, technology and professionalism, which are attributes we want on our project teams. Turner Construction is a North America-based, international construction services company and is a leading builder in diverse market segments. The company has earned recognition for undertaking large, complex projects, fostering innovation, embracing emerging technologies, and making a difference for their clients, employees and community. With a staff of 10,000 employees, the company completes US $12bn of construction on 1,500 projects each year. Turner offers clients the accessibility and support of a local firm with the stability and resources of a multi-national organization. Kiewit is one of the leading construction and engineering firms across North America. The company’s roots can be traced back to 1884 when the Kiewit family started its small, local masonry contracting company. It has now grown to be one of the major players in the industry across the continent. In 2019, Kiewit had revenues of US $10.3bn. With no operational long-term debt, our strong balance sheet offers clients the assurance that their projects will get completed. The company offers services in a variety of markets, successfully delivering some of the most challenging projects.