The following are the top hand power tools manufacturers in the USA: DEWALT is obsessed with how users work in the real world and is relentlessly pursuing total jobsite solutions. By incorporating its latest technology and industry innovations, DEWALT is leading the charge for the jobsite of the future. Using the latest technology, DEWALT takes on jobsite challenges to increase efficiency, boost productivity, and help you get more out of your tools. From 1924 to 2018 DEWALT continues to design and optimize professional workhorse solutions- tools, accessories and service – to ensure absolute confidence for the toughest jobsite conditions. Since 1857 Klein Tools, a family-owned and operated company, has been designing, developing and manufacturing premium-quality, professional-grade hand tools. The majority of Klein tools are manufactured in plants throughout the United States and are the No. 1 choice among professional electricians and other tradespeople. Klein is the only major tool manufacturer worldwide focused on electrical and utility applications. No other manufacturer of hand tools and related products used in electrical applications makes more items in America than Klein Tools. Since 1886, Channellock, Inc. has manufactured high-quality pliers on American soil. The company currently employs more than 350 dedicated associates who work hard every day to manufacture more than 75 different sizes and types of pliers in Meadville, Pennsylvania. The company is based out of two facilities, equaling a total of 260,000 square feet, in Meadville, PA. With more than 350 full-time associates, Channellock, Inc. is among the largest employers in Crawford County, PA. Channellock, Inc. has more than 4,000 U.S. wholesale and retail customers and ships to customers in 45 countries. Also Read: 10 safety tips when handling hand and power tools Snap-on Incorporated is a leading global innovator, manufacturer and marketer of tools, equipment, diagnostics, repair information and systems solutions for professional users performing critical tasks. Products and services include hand and power tools, tool storage, diagnostics software, information and management systems, shop equipment and other solutions for vehicle dealerships and repair centers, as well as for customers in industries, including aviation and aerospace, agriculture, construction, government and military, mining, natural resources, power generation and technical education. Snap-on also derives income from various financing programs to facilitate the sales of its products and support its franchise business. Products and services are sold through the company’s franchisee, company-direct, distributor and internet channels. Founded in 1920, Snap-on is a US $3.7bn, S&P 500 company headquartered in Kenosha, Wisconsin. Since 1923, the Estwing family and its employees have taken pride in designing and manufacturing the world’s most durable, comfortable and attractive striking and struck tools. All claw hammers, axes, specialty tools and pry bars are manufactured to the highest possible standards and offer a true value to both tradesmen and craftsmen alike. Estwing’s manufacturing facility is located in the northern Illinois city of Rockford – about 90 miles northwest of Chicago. Estwing product lines are sold in leading hardware stores, home centers, and retailers throughout the United States, Canada and in many countries around the world. Estwing continues to innovate and produce new handtools. Our engineers work continually to create the most revolutionary and long lasting hand tools on the market. Estwing is committed to American made tools for today and tomorrow.