The Lekki Port LFTZ Enterprise Limited (Lekki Port), developers of the Lekki Port which is currently under construction at the Lagos Free Zone, Ibeju Lekki, in Nigeria has commenced the construction of the 680m long quay wall with the driving of the first pile. According to the Lekki Port Chief Technical Officer, Mr. Steven Heukelom, the construction of the quay wall marks a major milestone from a technical standpoint because it is what will ensure that the port is capable of handling multiple container vessels of various sizes simultaneously. Also Read: Nigeria’s proposed Ibadan Inland Dry Port moves closer to construction Heukelom explained that the quay wall will initially be 680m long, with the capacity to berth two vessels each of up to 18,000 Twenty feet Equivalent Units (TEUs). He further revealed that there will be a total of 857 steel piles on the Combi wall which is set to have a diameter of 1.15m – 2.3m, a thickness of 23mm, and a depth of between 28 – 41m. The chief technical officer also mentioned that the container terminal would be equipped with seven Ship to Shore Cranes, 21 Rubber Tyre Gantry cranes, and other modern rolling terminal equipment. Speaking during the flag-off ceremony held at the project site, the Chief Executive Officer of Lekki Port, Mr. Ruogang Du, said that the commencement of the piling of the quay wall, which is a major phase of the construction, symbolizes a significant step towards the timely delivery of the project. Mr. Ruogang Du affirmed that despite the setback occasioned by the coronavirus pandemic, both the investors and the contractors have demonstrated admirable commitment to deliver the project as and when due. “As we all know, the pandemic has affected global economic development and personnel mobility the world over. However, developers and investors in Lekki Port have not stopped moving forward. We are actively resuming construction and are striving to fulfill our commitment to officially open the port for operations in the first half of 2023. This is a commitment to Lagos state and a commitment to the republic of Nigeria, and we will do our best to achieve it, “he emphasized.