There are many different applications of Construction Signages. First of all, they’re clearly identifiable textual displays that are there to either send a warning or a brand message. Construction crews and companies may use them in order to increase on-site safety or even to increase the branding efforts of the area in question. From the perspective of safety, these signs can both warn trespassers and remind seasoned crewmen of the dangers that are lurking about. As far as the branding goes, it’s quite impactful to display your crew in action. This way, you’re marking your territory and displaying your professionalism. All in all, there are various types of construction signages to worry about. There are five major groups of Construction Signages based on their purpose. First, you have the prohibition signs (preventing entry, smoking, etc.). Then, you have mandatory signs (like the one stating that high visibility clothing must be worn in the area). Third, you have warning signs (wet floor, risk of falling, etc.). Fourth, there are safe condition signs, which give people advice on safe behavior patterns. Lastly, you have a fire equipment type of signs (usually rectangular and red). Fire hazard is such a huge factor that it deserves a category of its own. Another thing worth taking into consideration is the type of site hazards that need to be warned of. First of all, there are fall hazards and risks of electrocution. Getting caught in between is a problem that causes so many construction site accidents. This too is something that construction site workers and visitors have to be warned of. Then, there are disasters that can be prevented by workers who wear PPE. While this is a rule and a legal requirement, you need to keep in mind that sometimes your workers just need a brief reminder. That’s all. Foamcore is lightweight and quite versatile for use but it has one downside that might be quite restrictive in the construction site – it’s meant for indoor use. There are various thicknesses of foamcore signs, ranging from 5mm and 10 mm (which are standard) all the way up to 20mm thicknesses. So, how do you use foamcore signs on the construction site? Well, there are certain areas that are covered or indoors. There’s still quite a bit of logic in using it, seeing as how it’s quite inexpensive. There are so many benefits to using corflute for your construction site. First of all, it’s incredibly resistant to all sorts of weather occurrences. Due to the fact that this signage is supposed to be outdoors, you will find yourself in a scenario where you don’t have to worry about leaving it out in any type of weather. Most importantly, this is a sign that you can just pack up and take to the next location. In other words, quality-made corflute signs are an investment that’s bound to pay itself off. When it comes to the type of materials for outdoor use, there’s nothing quite like aluminum. First of all, it’s durable, seeing as how it’s a material made out of metal but it’s also quite rust and water-proof. In other words, it’s simply ideal for a construction site. Now, unlike corflute and foamcore it’s somewhat more complex to work into any shape and the cost is somewhat higher. Fortunately, the majority of construction needs aren’t that complex or outlandish. Moreover, since aluminum is a common construction material, it’s quite fitting for you to use it on a construction site. In a scenario where you need just the sign to plant on a certain surface, you should definitely go for self-adhesive vinyl. The self-adhesive vinyl or the SAV can be applied to the majority of surfaces, even onto some of the most interesting flooring options like concrete, tiles or even carpet. Another reason why so many companies are using SAV is due to the fact that it’s just an ideal when combined with glass. A glass wall or a window, can, therefore, become a perfect branding or decoration opportunity. This is huge in construction, seeing as how glass is one of the most popular materials out there. When it comes to materials that can be used both indoors and outdoors, there are numerous reasons for you to pick acrylic. First of all, it’s on the high-end side of these signs, which is why it’s often picked for reception areas and entrances to the site. The problem with these acrylic signs lies in the fact that they should be used for, more or less, permanent signs. Removing them is not easy and it takes some patching. Still, there’s more than enough space for permanent signage in the construction industry for this material to be still worth your while. The last material worth mentioning here is the expanded PVC. Again, this material is quite lightweight and it comes in various thickness and sizes, even going all the way down to 1mm. It is made to be resistant to wind and rain but it’s not necessarily as aesthetic as some of the above-listed ideas. So, where does it fit in the larger scheme of things? Well, expanded PVC is amazing for short-term solutions on your construction site. Other than construction industries, this material has a wide application in the making of signage for sporting events, musical festivals and other, similar purposes. In the end, construction signages is a pivotal aspect of the construction site. Sure, it’s not the first thing that pops into your mind when designing a construction site but it’s something that present-day construction just can’t function without. The choice of the right material may seem of minor value but it just goes to show that the role of a construction site manager is an incredibly complex one. When combined, these minor decisions have the power to completely change the state of your construction site.